{
  "title": "IMergeTreeAttributionOptions Interface",
  "summary": "",
  "kind": "Interface",
  "members": {
    "PropertySignature": {
      "policyFactory": "/docs/apis/merge-tree/imergetreeattributionoptions-interface#policyfactory-propertysignature",
      "track": "/docs/apis/merge-tree/imergetreeattributionoptions-interface#track-propertysignature"
    }
  },
  "package": "@fluidframework/merge-tree",
  "unscopedPackageName": "merge-tree"
}

[//]: # (Do not edit this file. It is automatically generated by @fluidtools/api-markdown-documenter.)

WARNING: This API is provided as an alpha preview and may change without notice. Use at your own risk.

## Signature {#imergetreeattributionoptions-signature}

```typescript
export interface IMergeTreeAttributionOptions
```

## Properties

<table class="table table-striped table-hover">
  <thead>
    <tr>
      <th>
        Property
      </th>
      <th>
        Alerts
      </th>
      <th>
        Modifiers
      </th>
      <th>
        Type
      </th>
      <th>
        Description
      </th>
    </tr>
  </thead>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td>
        <a href='/docs/apis/merge-tree/imergetreeattributionoptions-interface#policyfactory-propertysignature'>policyFactory</a>
      </td>
      <td>
        <code>ALPHA</code>
      </td>
      <td>
        <code>optional</code>
      </td>
      <td>
        <span>() =&gt; <a href='/docs/apis/merge-tree/attributionpolicy-interface'>AttributionPolicy</a></span>
      </td>
      <td>
        Provides a policy for how to track attribution data on segments. This option must be provided if either: - <code>track</code> is set to true - a document containing existing attribution information is loaded
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>
        <a href='/docs/apis/merge-tree/imergetreeattributionoptions-interface#track-propertysignature'>track</a>
      </td>
      <td>
        <code>ALPHA</code>
      </td>
      <td>
        <code>optional</code>
      </td>
      <td>
        <span>boolean</span>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>
          If enabled, segments will store attribution keys which can be used with the runtime to determine attribution information (i.e. who created the content and when it was created).
        </p>
        <p>
          This flag only applied to new documents: if a snapshot is loaded, whether or not attribution keys are tracked is determined by the presence of existing attribution keys in the snapshot.
        </p>
        <p>
          default: false
        </p>
      </td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

## Property Details

### policyFactory (ALPHA) {#policyfactory-propertysignature}

Provides a policy for how to track attribution data on segments. This option must be provided if either: - `track` is set to true - a document containing existing attribution information is loaded

WARNING: This API is provided as an alpha preview and may change without notice. Use at your own risk.

#### Signature {#policyfactory-signature}

```typescript
policyFactory?: () => AttributionPolicy;
```

### track (ALPHA) {#track-propertysignature}

If enabled, segments will store attribution keys which can be used with the runtime to determine attribution information (i.e. who created the content and when it was created).

This flag only applied to new documents: if a snapshot is loaded, whether or not attribution keys are tracked is determined by the presence of existing attribution keys in the snapshot.

default: false

WARNING: This API is provided as an alpha preview and may change without notice. Use at your own risk.

#### Signature {#track-signature}

```typescript
track?: boolean;
```
