{
  "title": "IRelativePosition Interface",
  "summary": "A position specified relative to a segment.",
  "kind": "Interface",
  "members": {
    "PropertySignature": {
      "before": "/docs/apis/merge-tree/irelativeposition-interface#before-propertysignature",
      "id": "/docs/apis/merge-tree/irelativeposition-interface#id-propertysignature",
      "offset": "/docs/apis/merge-tree/irelativeposition-interface#offset-propertysignature"
    }
  },
  "package": "@fluidframework/merge-tree",
  "unscopedPackageName": "merge-tree"
}

[//]: # (Do not edit this file. It is automatically generated by @fluidtools/api-markdown-documenter.)

A position specified relative to a segment.

WARNING: This API is provided as an alpha preview and may change without notice. Use at your own risk.

## Signature {#irelativeposition-signature}

```typescript
export interface IRelativePosition
```

## Properties

<table class="table table-striped table-hover">
  <thead>
    <tr>
      <th>
        Property
      </th>
      <th>
        Alerts
      </th>
      <th>
        Modifiers
      </th>
      <th>
        Type
      </th>
      <th>
        Description
      </th>
    </tr>
  </thead>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td>
        <a href='/docs/apis/merge-tree/irelativeposition-interface#before-propertysignature'>before</a>
      </td>
      <td>
        <code>ALPHA</code>
      </td>
      <td>
        <code>optional</code>
      </td>
      <td>
        <span>boolean</span>
      </td>
      <td>
        If true, insert before the specified segment. If false or not defined, insert after the specified segment.
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>
        <a href='/docs/apis/merge-tree/irelativeposition-interface#id-propertysignature'>id</a>
      </td>
      <td>
        <code>ALPHA</code>
      </td>
      <td>
        <code>optional</code>
      </td>
      <td>
        <span>string</span>
      </td>
      <td>
        String identifier specifying a segment.
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>
        <a href='/docs/apis/merge-tree/irelativeposition-interface#offset-propertysignature'>offset</a>
      </td>
      <td>
        <code>ALPHA</code>
      </td>
      <td>
        <code>optional</code>
      </td>
      <td>
        <span>number</span>
      </td>
      <td>
        A positive number \>= 1. If before is false, offset is added to the position. If before is true, offset is subtracted from the position.
      </td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

## Property Details

### before (ALPHA) {#before-propertysignature}

If true, insert before the specified segment. If false or not defined, insert after the specified segment.

WARNING: This API is provided as an alpha preview and may change without notice. Use at your own risk.

#### Signature {#before-signature}

```typescript
before?: boolean;
```

### id (ALPHA) {#id-propertysignature}

String identifier specifying a segment.

WARNING: This API is provided as an alpha preview and may change without notice. Use at your own risk.

#### Signature {#id-signature}

```typescript
id?: string;
```

### offset (ALPHA) {#offset-propertysignature}

A positive number \>= 1. If before is false, offset is added to the position. If before is true, offset is subtracted from the position.

WARNING: This API is provided as an alpha preview and may change without notice. Use at your own risk.

#### Signature {#offset-signature}

```typescript
offset?: number;
```
