{
  "title": "IRemovalInfo Interface",
  "summary": "Contains removal information associated to an [ISegment](/docs/apis/merge-tree/isegment-interface).",
  "kind": "Interface",
  "members": {
    "PropertySignature": {
      "localRemovedSeq": "/docs/apis/merge-tree/iremovalinfo-interface#localremovedseq-propertysignature",
      "removedClientIds": "/docs/apis/merge-tree/iremovalinfo-interface#removedclientids-propertysignature",
      "removedSeq": "/docs/apis/merge-tree/iremovalinfo-interface#removedseq-propertysignature"
    }
  },
  "package": "@fluidframework/merge-tree",
  "unscopedPackageName": "merge-tree"
}

[//]: # (Do not edit this file. It is automatically generated by @fluidtools/api-markdown-documenter.)

Contains removal information associated to an [ISegment](/docs/apis/merge-tree/isegment-interface).

WARNING: This API is provided as an alpha preview and may change without notice. Use at your own risk.

## Signature {#iremovalinfo-signature}

```typescript
export interface IRemovalInfo
```

## Properties

<table class="table table-striped table-hover">
  <thead>
    <tr>
      <th>
        Property
      </th>
      <th>
        Alerts
      </th>
      <th>
        Modifiers
      </th>
      <th>
        Type
      </th>
      <th>
        Description
      </th>
    </tr>
  </thead>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td>
        <a href='/docs/apis/merge-tree/iremovalinfo-interface#localremovedseq-propertysignature'>localRemovedSeq</a>
      </td>
      <td>
        <code>ALPHA</code>
      </td>
      <td>
        <code>optional</code>
      </td>
      <td>
        <span>number</span>
      </td>
      <td>
        Local seq at which this segment was removed, if the removal is yet-to-be acked.
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>
        <a href='/docs/apis/merge-tree/iremovalinfo-interface#removedclientids-propertysignature'>removedClientIds</a>
      </td>
      <td>
        <code>ALPHA</code>
      </td>
      <td>
      </td>
      <td>
        <span>number[]</span>
      </td>
      <td>
        List of client IDs that have removed this segment. The client that actually removed the segment (i.e. whose removal op was sequenced first) is stored as the first client in this list. Other clients in the list have all issued concurrent ops to remove the segment.
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>
        <a href='/docs/apis/merge-tree/iremovalinfo-interface#removedseq-propertysignature'>removedSeq</a>
      </td>
      <td>
        <code>ALPHA</code>
      </td>
      <td>
      </td>
      <td>
        <span>number</span>
      </td>
      <td>
        Seq at which this segment was removed.
      </td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

## Property Details

### localRemovedSeq (ALPHA) {#localremovedseq-propertysignature}

Local seq at which this segment was removed, if the removal is yet-to-be acked.

WARNING: This API is provided as an alpha preview and may change without notice. Use at your own risk.

#### Signature {#localremovedseq-signature}

```typescript
localRemovedSeq?: number;
```

### removedClientIds (ALPHA) {#removedclientids-propertysignature}

List of client IDs that have removed this segment. The client that actually removed the segment (i.e. whose removal op was sequenced first) is stored as the first client in this list. Other clients in the list have all issued concurrent ops to remove the segment.

WARNING: This API is provided as an alpha preview and may change without notice. Use at your own risk.

#### Signature {#removedclientids-signature}

```typescript
removedClientIds: number[];
```

#### Remarks {#removedclientids-remarks}

When this list has length \> 1, this is referred to as the "overlapping remove" case.

### removedSeq (ALPHA) {#removedseq-propertysignature}

Seq at which this segment was removed.

WARNING: This API is provided as an alpha preview and may change without notice. Use at your own risk.

#### Signature {#removedseq-signature}

```typescript
removedSeq: number;
```
