{
  "title": "SequenceOffsets Interface",
  "summary": "",
  "kind": "Interface",
  "members": {
    "PropertySignature": {
      "posBreakpoints": "/docs/apis/merge-tree/sequenceoffsets-interface#posbreakpoints-propertysignature",
      "seqs": "/docs/apis/merge-tree/sequenceoffsets-interface#seqs-propertysignature"
    }
  },
  "package": "@fluidframework/merge-tree",
  "unscopedPackageName": "merge-tree"
}

[//]: # (Do not edit this file. It is automatically generated by @fluidtools/api-markdown-documenter.)

WARNING: This API is provided as an alpha preview and may change without notice. Use at your own risk.

## Signature {#sequenceoffsets-signature}

```typescript
export interface SequenceOffsets
```

## Properties

<table class="table table-striped table-hover">
  <thead>
    <tr>
      <th>
        Property
      </th>
      <th>
        Alerts
      </th>
      <th>
        Type
      </th>
      <th>
        Description
      </th>
    </tr>
  </thead>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td>
        <a href='/docs/apis/merge-tree/sequenceoffsets-interface#posbreakpoints-propertysignature'>posBreakpoints</a>
      </td>
      <td>
        <code>ALPHA</code>
      </td>
      <td>
        <span>number[]</span>
      </td>
      <td>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>
        <a href='/docs/apis/merge-tree/sequenceoffsets-interface#seqs-propertysignature'>seqs</a>
      </td>
      <td>
        <code>ALPHA</code>
      </td>
      <td>
        <span>(number &#124; <a href='/docs/apis/runtime-definitions#attributionkey-typealias'>AttributionKey</a> &#124; null)[]</span>
      </td>
      <td>
        Parallel array with posBreakpoints which tracks the seq of insertion.
      </td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

## Property Details

### posBreakpoints (ALPHA) {#posbreakpoints-propertysignature}

WARNING: This API is provided as an alpha preview and may change without notice. Use at your own risk.

#### Signature {#posbreakpoints-signature}

```typescript
posBreakpoints: number[];
```

### seqs (ALPHA) {#seqs-propertysignature}

Parallel array with posBreakpoints which tracks the seq of insertion.

WARNING: This API is provided as an alpha preview and may change without notice. Use at your own risk.

#### Signature {#seqs-signature}

```typescript
seqs: (number | AttributionKey | null)[];
```

#### Remarks {#seqs-remarks}

We use null here rather than undefined as round-tripping through JSON converts undefineds to null anyway

#### Example {#seqs-example}

If seqs is \[45, 46\] and posBreakpoints is \[0, 3\], the section of the string between offsets 0 and 3 was inserted at seq 45 and the section of the string between 3 and the length of the string was inserted at seq 46.
