{
  "title": "AllowedUpdateType",
  "kind": "Enum",
  "members": {
    "EnumMember": {
      "None": "/docs/apis/tree2/allowedupdatetype-enum#none-enummember",
      "SchemaCompatible": "/docs/apis/tree2/allowedupdatetype-enum#schemacompatible-enummember"
    }
  },
  "package": "@fluid-experimental/tree2",
  "unscopedPackageName": "tree2"
}

[//]: # (Do not edit this file. It is automatically generated by @fluidtools/api-markdown-documenter.)

What kinds of updates to stored schema to permit.

TODO: Currently this does not account for lazy schema updates, and/or use of adapters.

WARNING: This API is provided as an alpha preview and may change without notice. Use at your own risk.

## Signature {#allowedupdatetype-signature}

```typescript
export declare enum AllowedUpdateType
```

## Flags

<table class="table table-striped table-hover">
  <thead>
    <tr>
      <th>
        Flag
      </th>
      <th>
        Alerts
      </th>
      <th>
        Description
      </th>
    </tr>
  </thead>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td>
        <a href='/docs/apis/tree2/allowedupdatetype-enum#none-enummember'>None</a>
      </td>
      <td>
        <code>ALPHA</code>
      </td>
      <td>
        Do not update the stored schema to match view schema.
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>
        <a href='/docs/apis/tree2/allowedupdatetype-enum#schemacompatible-enummember'>SchemaCompatible</a>
      </td>
      <td>
        <code>ALPHA</code>
      </td>
      <td>
        Update the stored schema to match view schema if all possible documents based on the current stored schema would be compatible with the view schema.
      </td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

### None (ALPHA) {#none-enummember}

Do not update the stored schema to match view schema.

WARNING: This API is provided as an alpha preview and may change without notice. Use at your own risk.

#### Signature {#none-signature}

```typescript
None = 0
```

### SchemaCompatible (ALPHA) {#schemacompatible-enummember}

Update the stored schema to match view schema if all possible documents based on the current stored schema would be compatible with the view schema.

WARNING: This API is provided as an alpha preview and may change without notice. Use at your own risk.

#### Signature {#schemacompatible-signature}

```typescript
SchemaCompatible = 1
```
