{
  "title": "AnchorSet Class",
  "summary": "Collection of Anchors at a specific revision.\n\nSee `Rebaser` for how to update across revisions.\n\nTODO: this should not be package exported. If it's needed outside the package an Interface should be used instead which can reduce its API surface to a small subset.",
  "kind": "Class",
  "members": {
    "Constructor": {
      "(constructor)": "/docs/apis/tree2/anchorset-class#_constructor_-constructor"
    },
    "Property": {
      "generationNumber": "/docs/apis/tree2/anchorset-class#generationnumber-property"
    }
  },
  "package": "@fluid-experimental/tree2",
  "unscopedPackageName": "tree2"
}

[//]: # (Do not edit this file. It is automatically generated by @fluidtools/api-markdown-documenter.)

Collection of Anchors at a specific revision.

See `Rebaser` for how to update across revisions.

TODO: this should not be package exported. If it's needed outside the package an Interface should be used instead which can reduce its API surface to a small subset.

WARNING: This API is provided as an alpha preview and may change without notice. Use at your own risk.

## Signature {#anchorset-signature}

```typescript
/** @sealed */
export declare class AnchorSet implements ISubscribable<AnchorSetRootEvents>, AnchorLocator
```

**Implements:** [ISubscribable](/docs/apis/tree2/isubscribable-interface)&lt;[AnchorSetRootEvents](/docs/apis/tree2/anchorsetrootevents-interface)&gt;, [AnchorLocator](/docs/apis/tree2/anchorlocator-interface)

## Constructors

<table class="table table-striped table-hover">
  <thead>
    <tr>
      <th>
        Constructor
      </th>
      <th>
        Alerts
      </th>
      <th>
        Description
      </th>
    </tr>
  </thead>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td>
        <a href='/docs/apis/tree2/anchorset-class#_constructor_-constructor'>(constructor)()</a>
      </td>
      <td>
        <code>ALPHA</code>
      </td>
      <td>
        Constructs a new instance of the <code>AnchorSet</code> class
      </td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

## Properties

<table class="table table-striped table-hover">
  <thead>
    <tr>
      <th>
        Property
      </th>
      <th>
        Alerts
      </th>
      <th>
        Type
      </th>
      <th>
        Description
      </th>
    </tr>
  </thead>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td>
        <a href='/docs/apis/tree2/anchorset-class#generationnumber-property'>generationNumber</a>
      </td>
      <td>
        <code>ALPHA</code>
      </td>
      <td>
        <span>number</span>
      </td>
      <td>
        Incrementing number that is bumped each time that the <a href='/docs/apis/tree2/anchorset-class'>AnchorSet</a> is changed. This allows consumers to cache state associated with a particular generation number and later determine if that state may have been invalidated using a comparison with the current generation number. For example, anchor slots can be used to cache the removal status of a node to memoize repeated walks up the tree.
      </td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

## Constructor Details

### (constructor) (ALPHA) {#_constructor_-constructor}

Constructs a new instance of the `AnchorSet` class

WARNING: This API is provided as an alpha preview and may change without notice. Use at your own risk.

#### Signature {#_constructor_-signature}

```typescript
constructor();
```

## Property Details

### generationNumber (ALPHA) {#generationnumber-property}

Incrementing number that is bumped each time that the [AnchorSet](/docs/apis/tree2/anchorset-class) is changed. This allows consumers to cache state associated with a particular generation number and later determine if that state may have been invalidated using a comparison with the current generation number. For example, anchor slots can be used to cache the removal status of a node to memoize repeated walks up the tree.

WARNING: This API is provided as an alpha preview and may change without notice. Use at your own risk.

#### Signature {#generationnumber-signature}

```typescript
generationNumber: number;
```
