{
  "title": "BrandedType Class",
  "summary": "Helper for [Brand](/docs/apis/tree2#brand-typealias). This is split out into its own as that's the only way to: - have doc comments for the member. - make the member protected (so you don't accidentally try and read it). - get nominal typing (so types produced without using this class can never be assignable to it). - allow use as [Opaque](/docs/apis/tree2#opaque-typealias) branded type (not assignable to `ValueType`, but captures `ValueType`).\n\nSee _InternalTypes\\#MakeNominal_ for some more details.\n\nDo not use this class with `instanceof`: this will always be false at runtime, but the compiler may think it's true in some cases.",
  "kind": "Class",
  "members": {
    "Property": {
      "_typeCheck": "/docs/apis/tree2/brandedtype-class#_typecheck-property"
    }
  },
  "package": "@fluid-experimental/tree2",
  "unscopedPackageName": "tree2"
}

[//]: # (Do not edit this file. It is automatically generated by @fluidtools/api-markdown-documenter.)

Helper for [Brand](/docs/apis/tree2#brand-typealias). This is split out into its own as that's the only way to: - have doc comments for the member. - make the member protected (so you don't accidentally try and read it). - get nominal typing (so types produced without using this class can never be assignable to it). - allow use as [Opaque](/docs/apis/tree2#opaque-typealias) branded type (not assignable to `ValueType`, but captures `ValueType`).

See _InternalTypes\#MakeNominal_ for some more details.

Do not use this class with `instanceof`: this will always be false at runtime, but the compiler may think it's true in some cases.

WARNING: This API is provided as an alpha preview and may change without notice. Use at your own risk.

## Signature {#brandedtype-signature}

```typescript
/** @sealed */
export declare abstract class BrandedType<out ValueType, Name extends string>
```

### Type Parameters

<table class="table table-striped table-hover">
  <thead>
    <tr>
      <th>
        Parameter
      </th>
      <th>
        Description
      </th>
    </tr>
  </thead>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td>
        ValueType
      </td>
      <td>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>
        Name
      </td>
      <td>
      </td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

## Remarks {#brandedtype-remarks}

This is covariant over ValueType. This is suitable for when ValueType is immutable (like string or number), which is the common use-case for branding.

## Properties

<table class="table table-striped table-hover">
  <thead>
    <tr>
      <th>
        Property
      </th>
      <th>
        Alerts
      </th>
      <th>
        Modifiers
      </th>
      <th>
        Type
      </th>
      <th>
        Description
      </th>
    </tr>
  </thead>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td>
        <a href='/docs/apis/tree2/brandedtype-class#_typecheck-property'>_typeCheck</a>
      </td>
      <td>
        <code>ALPHA</code>
      </td>
      <td>
        <code>optional</code>
      </td>
      <td>
        <span><a href='/docs/apis/tree2/covariant-interface'>Covariant</a>&lt;ValueType&gt;</span>
      </td>
      <td>
      </td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

## Property Details

### \_typeCheck (ALPHA) {#_typecheck-property}

WARNING: This API is provided as an alpha preview and may change without notice. Use at your own risk.

#### Signature {#_typecheck-signature}

```typescript
protected _typeCheck?: Covariant<ValueType>;
```
