{
  "title": "CheckoutEvents Interface",
  "summary": "Events for [ITreeCheckout](/docs/apis/tree2/itreecheckout-interface).",
  "kind": "Interface",
  "members": {
    "MethodSignature": {
      "afterBatch": "/docs/apis/tree2/checkoutevents-interface#afterbatch-methodsignature",
      "revertible": "/docs/apis/tree2/checkoutevents-interface#revertible-methodsignature"
    }
  },
  "package": "@fluid-experimental/tree2",
  "unscopedPackageName": "tree2"
}

[//]: # (Do not edit this file. It is automatically generated by @fluidtools/api-markdown-documenter.)

Events for [ITreeCheckout](/docs/apis/tree2/itreecheckout-interface).

WARNING: This API is provided as a beta preview and may change without notice. Use at your own risk.

## Signature {#checkoutevents-signature}

```typescript
export interface CheckoutEvents
```

## Methods

<table class="table table-striped table-hover">
  <thead>
    <tr>
      <th>
        Method
      </th>
      <th>
        Alerts
      </th>
      <th>
        Return Type
      </th>
      <th>
        Description
      </th>
    </tr>
  </thead>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td>
        <a href='/docs/apis/tree2/checkoutevents-interface#afterbatch-methodsignature'>afterBatch()</a>
      </td>
      <td>
        <code>BETA</code>
      </td>
      <td>
        <span>void</span>
      </td>
      <td>
        A batch of changes has finished processing and the view is in a consistent state. It is once again safe to access the EditableTree, Forest and AnchorSet.
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>
        <a href='/docs/apis/tree2/checkoutevents-interface#revertible-methodsignature'>revertible(revertible)</a>
      </td>
      <td>
        <code>BETA</code>
      </td>
      <td>
        <span>void</span>
      </td>
      <td>
        A revertible change has been made to this view. Applications which subscribe to this event are expected to revert or discard revertibles they acquire, if they so choose (failure to do so will leak memory). The provided revertible is inherently bound to the view that raised the event, calling <code>revert</code> won't apply to forked views.
      </td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

## Method Details

### afterBatch (BETA) {#afterbatch-methodsignature}

A batch of changes has finished processing and the view is in a consistent state. It is once again safe to access the EditableTree, Forest and AnchorSet.

WARNING: This API is provided as a beta preview and may change without notice. Use at your own risk.

#### Signature {#afterbatch-signature}

```typescript
afterBatch(): void;
```

#### Remarks {#afterbatch-remarks}

This is mainly useful for knowing when to do followup work scheduled during events from Anchors.

### revertible (BETA) {#revertible-methodsignature}

A revertible change has been made to this view. Applications which subscribe to this event are expected to revert or discard revertibles they acquire, if they so choose (failure to do so will leak memory). The provided revertible is inherently bound to the view that raised the event, calling `revert` won't apply to forked views.

WARNING: This API is provided as a beta preview and may change without notice. Use at your own risk.

#### Signature {#revertible-signature}

```typescript
revertible(revertible: Revertible): void;
```

#### Remarks {#revertible-remarks}

This event provides a [Revertible](/docs/apis/tree2/revertible-interface) object that can be used to revert the change.

#### Parameters {#revertible-parameters}

<table class="table table-striped table-hover">
  <thead>
    <tr>
      <th>
        Parameter
      </th>
      <th>
        Type
      </th>
      <th>
        Description
      </th>
    </tr>
  </thead>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td>
        revertible
      </td>
      <td>
        <span><a href='/docs/apis/tree2/revertible-interface'>Revertible</a></span>
      </td>
      <td>
      </td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>
