{
  "title": "FieldMapObject Interface",
  "summary": "Json compatible map as object. Keys are FieldKey strings. Values are the content of the field specified by the key.\n\nWARNING: Be very careful when using objects as maps: Use `Object.prototype.hasOwnProperty.call(fieldMap, key)` to safely check for keys. Do NOT simply read the field and check for undefined as this will return values for `__proto__` and various methods on Object.prototype, like `hasOwnProperty` and `toString`. This exposes numerous bug possibilities, including prototype pollution.\n\nDue to the above issue, try to avoid this type (and the whole object as map pattern). Only use this type when needed for json compatible maps, but even in those cases consider lists of key value pairs for serialization and using `Map` for runtime.",
  "kind": "Interface",
  "members": {
    "IndexSignature": {
      "(indexer)": "/docs/apis/tree2/fieldmapobject-interface#_indexer_-indexsignature"
    }
  },
  "package": "@fluid-experimental/tree2",
  "unscopedPackageName": "tree2"
}

[//]: # (Do not edit this file. It is automatically generated by @fluidtools/api-markdown-documenter.)

Json compatible map as object. Keys are FieldKey strings. Values are the content of the field specified by the key.

WARNING: Be very careful when using objects as maps: Use `Object.prototype.hasOwnProperty.call(fieldMap, key)` to safely check for keys. Do NOT simply read the field and check for undefined as this will return values for `__proto__` and various methods on Object.prototype, like `hasOwnProperty` and `toString`. This exposes numerous bug possibilities, including prototype pollution.

Due to the above issue, try to avoid this type (and the whole object as map pattern). Only use this type when needed for json compatible maps, but even in those cases consider lists of key value pairs for serialization and using `Map` for runtime.

WARNING: This API is provided as an alpha preview and may change without notice. Use at your own risk.

## Signature {#fieldmapobject-signature}

```typescript
export interface FieldMapObject<TChild>
```

### Type Parameters

<table class="table table-striped table-hover">
  <thead>
    <tr>
      <th>
        Parameter
      </th>
      <th>
        Description
      </th>
    </tr>
  </thead>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td>
        TChild
      </td>
      <td>
      </td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

## Index Signatures

<table class="table table-striped table-hover">
  <thead>
    <tr>
      <th>
        IndexSignature
      </th>
      <th>
        Alerts
      </th>
      <th>
        Description
      </th>
    </tr>
  </thead>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td>
        <a href='/docs/apis/tree2/fieldmapobject-interface#_indexer_-indexsignature'>[key: string]: TChild[]</a>
      </td>
      <td>
        <code>ALPHA</code>
      </td>
      <td>
      </td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

## Index Signature Details

### \[key: string\]: TChild\[\] (ALPHA) {#_indexer_-indexsignature}

WARNING: This API is provided as an alpha preview and may change without notice. Use at your own risk.

#### Signature {#_indexer_-signature}

```typescript
[key: string]: TChild[];
```
