{
  "title": "FlexTreeFieldNode Interface",
  "summary": "A [FlexTreeNode](/docs/apis/tree2/flextreenode-interface) that wraps a single [FlexTreeField](/docs/apis/tree2/flextreefield-interface) (which is placed under the [EmptyKey](/docs/apis/tree2#emptykey-variable)).",
  "kind": "Interface",
  "members": {
    "PropertySignature": {
      "boxedContent": "/docs/apis/tree2/flextreefieldnode-interface#boxedcontent-propertysignature",
      "content": "/docs/apis/tree2/flextreefieldnode-interface#content-propertysignature",
      "schema": "/docs/apis/tree2/flextreefieldnode-interface#schema-propertysignature"
    }
  },
  "package": "@fluid-experimental/tree2",
  "unscopedPackageName": "tree2"
}

[//]: # (Do not edit this file. It is automatically generated by @fluidtools/api-markdown-documenter.)

A [FlexTreeNode](/docs/apis/tree2/flextreenode-interface) that wraps a single [FlexTreeField](/docs/apis/tree2/flextreefield-interface) (which is placed under the [EmptyKey](/docs/apis/tree2#emptykey-variable)).

WARNING: This API is provided as an alpha preview and may change without notice. Use at your own risk.

## Signature {#flextreefieldnode-signature}

```typescript
export interface FlexTreeFieldNode<in out TSchema extends FieldNodeSchema> extends FlexTreeNode
```

**Extends:** [FlexTreeNode](/docs/apis/tree2/flextreenode-interface)

### Type Parameters

<table class="table table-striped table-hover">
  <thead>
    <tr>
      <th>
        Parameter
      </th>
      <th>
        Description
      </th>
    </tr>
  </thead>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td>
        TSchema
      </td>
      <td>
      </td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

## Remarks {#flextreefieldnode-remarks}

A FieldNode is mostly identical to a struct node with a single field using the [EmptyKey](/docs/apis/tree2#emptykey-variable), but provides access to it via a field named "content".

There are several use-cases where it makes sense to use a field node. Here are a few: - When it's necessary to differentiate between an empty sequence, and no sequence. One case where this is needed is encoding Json. - When polymorphism over [TreeFieldSchema](/docs/apis/tree2/treefieldschema-class) (and not just a union of [AllowedTypes](/docs/apis/tree2#allowedtypes-typealias)) is required. For example when encoding a schema for a type like `Foo[] | Bar[]`, `Foo | Foo[]` or `Optional<Foo> | Optional<Bar>` (Where `Optional` is the Optional field kind, not TypeScript's `Optional`). Since this schema system only allows `|` of [TreeNodeSchema](/docs/apis/tree2#treenodeschema-typealias) (and only when declaring a [TreeFieldSchema](/docs/apis/tree2/treefieldschema-class)), see _SchemaBuilderBase.field_, these aggregate types are most simply expressed by creating fieldNodes for the terms like `Foo[]`, and `Optional<Foo>`. Note that these are distinct from types like `(Foo | Bar)[]` and `Optional<Foo | Bar>` which can be expressed as single fields without extra nodes. - When a distinct merge identity is desired for a field. For example, if the application wants to be able to have an optional node or a sequence which it can pass around, edit and observe changes to, in some cases (like when the content is moved to a different parent) this can be more flexible if a field node is introduced to create a separate logical entity (node) which wraps the field. This can even be useful with value fields to wrap terminal nodes if a stable merge - When a field (such as a [FlexTreeSequenceField](/docs/apis/tree2/flextreesequencefield-interface)) is desired in a location where [FlexTreeNode](/docs/apis/tree2/flextreenode-interface)s are required (like the member of a union or the child of another [FlexTreeField](/docs/apis/tree2/flextreefield-interface)). This can is typically just a different perspective on one of the above cases. For example: `Sequence<Foo> | Sequence<Bar>` or `OptionalField<Sequence<Foo>>` can't be expressed as simple fields (unlike `Sequence<Foo | Bar>` or `OptionalField<Foo>` which can be done as simple fields). Instead [FlexTreeFieldNode](/docs/apis/tree2/flextreefieldnode-interface)s can be use to achieve something similar, more like: `FieldNode<Sequence<Foo>> | FieldNode<Sequence<Bar>>` or `OptionalField<FieldNode<Sequence<Foo>>>`.

## Properties

<table class="table table-striped table-hover">
  <thead>
    <tr>
      <th>
        Property
      </th>
      <th>
        Alerts
      </th>
      <th>
        Modifiers
      </th>
      <th>
        Type
      </th>
      <th>
        Description
      </th>
    </tr>
  </thead>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td>
        <a href='/docs/apis/tree2/flextreefieldnode-interface#boxedcontent-propertysignature'>boxedContent</a>
      </td>
      <td>
        <code>ALPHA</code>
      </td>
      <td>
        <code>readonly</code>
      </td>
      <td>
        <span><a href='/docs/apis/tree2#flextreetypedfield-typealias'>FlexTreeTypedField</a>&lt;TSchema[&quot;info&quot;]&gt;</span>
      </td>
      <td>
        The field this field node wraps.
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>
        <a href='/docs/apis/tree2/flextreefieldnode-interface#content-propertysignature'>content</a>
      </td>
      <td>
        <code>ALPHA</code>
      </td>
      <td>
        <code>readonly</code>
      </td>
      <td>
        <span><a href='/docs/apis/tree2#flextreeunboxfield-typealias'>FlexTreeUnboxField</a>&lt;TSchema[&quot;info&quot;]&gt;</span>
      </td>
      <td>
        The content this field node wraps.
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>
        <a href='/docs/apis/tree2/flextreefieldnode-interface#schema-propertysignature'>schema</a>
      </td>
      <td>
        <code>ALPHA</code>
      </td>
      <td>
        <code>readonly</code>
      </td>
      <td>
        <span>TSchema</span>
      </td>
      <td>
      </td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

## Property Details

### boxedContent (ALPHA) {#boxedcontent-propertysignature}

The field this field node wraps.

WARNING: This API is provided as an alpha preview and may change without notice. Use at your own risk.

#### Signature {#boxedcontent-signature}

```typescript
readonly boxedContent: FlexTreeTypedField<TSchema["info"]>;
```

#### Remarks {#boxedcontent-remarks}

Since field nodes are usually used to wrap fields which don't do unboxing (like [FlexTreeSequenceField](/docs/apis/tree2/flextreesequencefield-interface)), this is usually the same as [content](/docs/apis/tree2/flextreefieldnode-interface#content-propertysignature). This is also the same as `[...this][0]`.

### content (ALPHA) {#content-propertysignature}

The content this field node wraps.

WARNING: This API is provided as an alpha preview and may change without notice. Use at your own risk.

#### Signature {#content-signature}

```typescript
readonly content: FlexTreeUnboxField<TSchema["info"]>;
```

#### Remarks {#content-remarks}

This is a version of [boxedContent](/docs/apis/tree2/flextreefieldnode-interface#boxedcontent-propertysignature) but does unboxing. Since field node are usually used to wrap fields which don't do unboxing (like [FlexTreeSequenceField](/docs/apis/tree2/flextreesequencefield-interface))

### schema (ALPHA) {#schema-propertysignature}

WARNING: This API is provided as an alpha preview and may change without notice. Use at your own risk.

#### Signature {#schema-signature}

```typescript
readonly schema: TSchema;
```
