{
  "title": "FlexTreeObjectNode Interface",
  "summary": "A [FlexTreeNode](/docs/apis/tree2/flextreenode-interface) that behaves like an 'object' or 'struct', providing properties to access its fields.\n\nObjectNodes consist of a finite collection of fields, each with their own (distinct) key and [TreeFieldSchema](/docs/apis/tree2/treefieldschema-class).",
  "kind": "Interface",
  "members": {
    "PropertySignature": {
      "localNodeKey": "/docs/apis/tree2/flextreeobjectnode-interface#localnodekey-propertysignature",
      "schema": "/docs/apis/tree2/flextreeobjectnode-interface#schema-propertysignature"
    }
  },
  "package": "@fluid-experimental/tree2",
  "unscopedPackageName": "tree2"
}

[//]: # (Do not edit this file. It is automatically generated by @fluidtools/api-markdown-documenter.)

A [FlexTreeNode](/docs/apis/tree2/flextreenode-interface) that behaves like an "object" or "struct", providing properties to access its fields.

ObjectNodes consist of a finite collection of fields, each with their own (distinct) key and [TreeFieldSchema](/docs/apis/tree2/treefieldschema-class).

WARNING: This API is provided as an alpha preview and may change without notice. Use at your own risk.

## Signature {#flextreeobjectnode-signature}

```typescript
export interface FlexTreeObjectNode extends FlexTreeNode
```

**Extends:** [FlexTreeNode](/docs/apis/tree2/flextreenode-interface)

## Remarks {#flextreeobjectnode-remarks}

ObjectNodes require complex typing, and have been split into two parts for implementation purposes. See [FlexTreeObjectNodeTyped](/docs/apis/tree2#flextreeobjectnodetyped-typealias) for the schema aware extensions to this that provide access to the fields.

These "Objects" resemble "Structs" from a wide variety of programming languages (Including Algol 68, C, Go, Rust, C\# etc.). ObjectNodes also somewhat resemble JavaScript objects: this analogy is less precise (objects don't have a fixed schema for example), but for consistency with other systems in the JavaScript ecosystem (like JSON) is "ObjectNodes" nodes are named "Objects".

Another common name for this abstraction is \[record\](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Record\_(computer\_science)). The name "Record" is avoided (in favor of Object) here because it has less precise connotations for most TypeScript developers. For example, TypeScript has a built in `Record` type, but it requires all of the fields to have the same type, putting its semantics half way between this library's "Object" schema and [FlexTreeMapNode](/docs/apis/tree2/flextreemapnode-interface).

## Properties

<table class="table table-striped table-hover">
  <thead>
    <tr>
      <th>
        Property
      </th>
      <th>
        Alerts
      </th>
      <th>
        Modifiers
      </th>
      <th>
        Type
      </th>
      <th>
        Description
      </th>
    </tr>
  </thead>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td>
        <a href='/docs/apis/tree2/flextreeobjectnode-interface#localnodekey-propertysignature'>localNodeKey</a>
      </td>
      <td>
        <code>ALPHA</code>
      </td>
      <td>
        <code>optional</code>, <code>readonly</code>
      </td>
      <td>
        <span><a href='/docs/apis/tree2/localnodekey-interface'>LocalNodeKey</a></span>
      </td>
      <td>
        <a href='/docs/apis/tree2/localnodekey-interface'>LocalNodeKey</a> that identifies this node.
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>
        <a href='/docs/apis/tree2/flextreeobjectnode-interface#schema-propertysignature'>schema</a>
      </td>
      <td>
        <code>ALPHA</code>
      </td>
      <td>
        <code>readonly</code>
      </td>
      <td>
        <span><a href='/docs/apis/tree2/objectnodeschema-class'>ObjectNodeSchema</a></span>
      </td>
      <td>
      </td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

## Property Details

### localNodeKey (ALPHA) {#localnodekey-propertysignature}

[LocalNodeKey](/docs/apis/tree2/localnodekey-interface) that identifies this node.

WARNING: This API is provided as an alpha preview and may change without notice. Use at your own risk.

#### Signature {#localnodekey-signature}

```typescript
readonly localNodeKey?: LocalNodeKey;
```

### schema (ALPHA) {#schema-propertysignature}

WARNING: This API is provided as an alpha preview and may change without notice. Use at your own risk.

#### Signature {#schema-signature}

```typescript
readonly schema: ObjectNodeSchema;
```
