{
  "title": "ForestEvents Interface",
  "summary": "Events for [IForestSubscription](/docs/apis/tree2/iforestsubscription-interface).\n\nTODO: consider having before and after events per subtree instead while applying anchor (and this just shows what happens at the root).",
  "kind": "Interface",
  "members": {
    "MethodSignature": {
      "afterChange": "/docs/apis/tree2/forestevents-interface#afterchange-methodsignature",
      "beforeChange": "/docs/apis/tree2/forestevents-interface#beforechange-methodsignature"
    }
  },
  "package": "@fluid-experimental/tree2",
  "unscopedPackageName": "tree2"
}

[//]: # (Do not edit this file. It is automatically generated by @fluidtools/api-markdown-documenter.)

Events for [IForestSubscription](/docs/apis/tree2/iforestsubscription-interface).

TODO: consider having before and after events per subtree instead while applying anchor (and this just shows what happens at the root).

WARNING: This API is provided as an alpha preview and may change without notice. Use at your own risk.

## Signature {#forestevents-signature}

```typescript
export interface ForestEvents
```

## Methods

<table class="table table-striped table-hover">
  <thead>
    <tr>
      <th>
        Method
      </th>
      <th>
        Alerts
      </th>
      <th>
        Return Type
      </th>
      <th>
        Description
      </th>
    </tr>
  </thead>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td>
        <a href='/docs/apis/tree2/forestevents-interface#afterchange-methodsignature'>afterChange()</a>
      </td>
      <td>
        <code>ALPHA</code>
      </td>
      <td>
        <span>void</span>
      </td>
      <td>
        The forest was just changed. Emitted after the last change in a batch of changes.
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>
        <a href='/docs/apis/tree2/forestevents-interface#beforechange-methodsignature'>beforeChange()</a>
      </td>
      <td>
        <code>ALPHA</code>
      </td>
      <td>
        <span>void</span>
      </td>
      <td>
        The forest is about to be changed. Emitted before the first change in a batch of changes.
      </td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

## Method Details

### afterChange (ALPHA) {#afterchange-methodsignature}

The forest was just changed. Emitted after the last change in a batch of changes.

WARNING: This API is provided as an alpha preview and may change without notice. Use at your own risk.

#### Signature {#afterchange-signature}

```typescript
afterChange(): void;
```

### beforeChange (ALPHA) {#beforechange-methodsignature}

The forest is about to be changed. Emitted before the first change in a batch of changes.

WARNING: This API is provided as an alpha preview and may change without notice. Use at your own risk.

#### Signature {#beforechange-signature}

```typescript
beforeChange(): void;
```
