{
  "title": "FullSchemaPolicy Interface",
  "summary": "Policy from the app for interpreting the stored schema. The app must ensure consistency for all users of the document.",
  "kind": "Interface",
  "members": {
    "PropertySignature": {
      "fieldKinds": "/docs/apis/tree2/fullschemapolicy-interface#fieldkinds-propertysignature"
    }
  },
  "package": "@fluid-experimental/tree2",
  "unscopedPackageName": "tree2"
}

[//]: # (Do not edit this file. It is automatically generated by @fluidtools/api-markdown-documenter.)

Policy from the app for interpreting the stored schema. The app must ensure consistency for all users of the document.

WARNING: This API is provided as an alpha preview and may change without notice. Use at your own risk.

## Signature {#fullschemapolicy-signature}

```typescript
export interface FullSchemaPolicy
```

## Properties

<table class="table table-striped table-hover">
  <thead>
    <tr>
      <th>
        Property
      </th>
      <th>
        Alerts
      </th>
      <th>
        Modifiers
      </th>
      <th>
        Type
      </th>
      <th>
        Description
      </th>
    </tr>
  </thead>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td>
        <a href='/docs/apis/tree2/fullschemapolicy-interface#fieldkinds-propertysignature'>fieldKinds</a>
      </td>
      <td>
        <code>ALPHA</code>
      </td>
      <td>
        <code>readonly</code>
      </td>
      <td>
        <span>ReadonlyMap&lt;<a href='/docs/apis/tree2#fieldkindidentifier-typealias'>FieldKindIdentifier</a>, <a href='/docs/apis/tree2/fieldkind-class'>FieldKind</a>&gt;</span>
      </td>
      <td>
        Policy information about FieldKinds: This is typically stored as code, not in documents, and defines how to handles fields based on their kind. It is assumed that all users of a document will have exactly the same FieldKind policies, though older applications might be missing some, and will be unable to process any changes that use those FieldKinds.
      </td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

## Property Details

### fieldKinds (ALPHA) {#fieldkinds-propertysignature}

Policy information about FieldKinds: This is typically stored as code, not in documents, and defines how to handles fields based on their kind. It is assumed that all users of a document will have exactly the same FieldKind policies, though older applications might be missing some, and will be unable to process any changes that use those FieldKinds.

WARNING: This API is provided as an alpha preview and may change without notice. Use at your own risk.

#### Signature {#fieldkinds-signature}

```typescript
readonly fieldKinds: ReadonlyMap<FieldKindIdentifier, FieldKind>;
```
