{
  "title": "ICodecOptions Interface",
  "summary": "Options relating to handling of persisted data.",
  "kind": "Interface",
  "members": {
    "PropertySignature": {
      "jsonValidator": "/docs/apis/tree2/icodecoptions-interface#jsonvalidator-propertysignature"
    }
  },
  "package": "@fluid-experimental/tree2",
  "unscopedPackageName": "tree2"
}

[//]: # (Do not edit this file. It is automatically generated by @fluidtools/api-markdown-documenter.)

Options relating to handling of persisted data.

WARNING: This API is provided as an alpha preview and may change without notice. Use at your own risk.

## Signature {#icodecoptions-signature}

```typescript
export interface ICodecOptions
```

## Properties

<table class="table table-striped table-hover">
  <thead>
    <tr>
      <th>
        Property
      </th>
      <th>
        Alerts
      </th>
      <th>
        Modifiers
      </th>
      <th>
        Type
      </th>
      <th>
        Description
      </th>
    </tr>
  </thead>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td>
        <a href='/docs/apis/tree2/icodecoptions-interface#jsonvalidator-propertysignature'>jsonValidator</a>
      </td>
      <td>
        <code>ALPHA</code>
      </td>
      <td>
        <code>readonly</code>
      </td>
      <td>
        <span><a href='/docs/apis/tree2/jsonvalidator-interface'>JsonValidator</a></span>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>
          <a href='/docs/apis/tree2/jsonvalidator-interface'>JsonValidator</a> which SharedTree uses to validate persisted data it reads &amp; writes matches the expected encoded format (i.e. the wire format for ops and summaries).
        </p>
        <p>
          See <a href='/docs/apis/tree2#noopvalidator-variable'>noopValidator</a> and <a href='/docs/apis/tree2#typeboxvalidator-variable'>typeboxValidator</a> for out-of-the-box implementations.
        </p>
        <p>
          This option is not &quot;on-by-default&quot; because JSON schema validation comes with a small but noticeable runtime performance cost, and popular schema validation libraries have relatively large bundle size.
        </p>
        <p>
          SharedTree users are still encouraged to use a non-trivial validator (i.e. not <code>noopValidator</code>) whenever reasonable: it gives better fail-fast behavior when unexpected encoded data is found, which reduces the risk of unrecoverable data corruption.
        </p>
      </td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

## Property Details

### jsonValidator (ALPHA) {#jsonvalidator-propertysignature}

[JsonValidator](/docs/apis/tree2/jsonvalidator-interface) which SharedTree uses to validate persisted data it reads &amp; writes matches the expected encoded format (i.e. the wire format for ops and summaries).

See [noopValidator](/docs/apis/tree2#noopvalidator-variable) and [typeboxValidator](/docs/apis/tree2#typeboxvalidator-variable) for out-of-the-box implementations.

This option is not "on-by-default" because JSON schema validation comes with a small but noticeable runtime performance cost, and popular schema validation libraries have relatively large bundle size.

SharedTree users are still encouraged to use a non-trivial validator (i.e. not `noopValidator`) whenever reasonable: it gives better fail-fast behavior when unexpected encoded data is found, which reduces the risk of unrecoverable data corruption.

WARNING: This API is provided as an alpha preview and may change without notice. Use at your own risk.

#### Signature {#jsonvalidator-signature}

```typescript
readonly jsonValidator: JsonValidator;
```
