{
  "title": "IDisposable Interface",
  "summary": "An object with an explicit lifetime that can be ended.",
  "kind": "Interface",
  "members": {
    "MethodSignature": {
      "[disposeSymbol]": "/docs/apis/tree2/idisposable-interface#_disposesymbol_-methodsignature"
    }
  },
  "package": "@fluid-experimental/tree2",
  "unscopedPackageName": "tree2"
}

[//]: # (Do not edit this file. It is automatically generated by @fluidtools/api-markdown-documenter.)

An object with an explicit lifetime that can be ended.

WARNING: This API is provided as a beta preview and may change without notice. Use at your own risk.

## Signature {#idisposable-signature}

```typescript
export interface IDisposable
```

## Methods

<table class="table table-striped table-hover">
  <thead>
    <tr>
      <th>
        Method
      </th>
      <th>
        Alerts
      </th>
      <th>
        Return Type
      </th>
      <th>
        Description
      </th>
    </tr>
  </thead>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td>
        <a href='/docs/apis/tree2/idisposable-interface#_disposesymbol_-methodsignature'>[disposeSymbol]()</a>
      </td>
      <td>
        <code>BETA</code>
      </td>
      <td>
        <span>void</span>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>
          Call to end the lifetime of this object.
        </p>
        <p>
          It is invalid to use this object after this, except for operations which explicitly document they are valid after disposal.
        </p>
      </td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

## Method Details

### \[disposeSymbol\] (BETA) {#_disposesymbol_-methodsignature}

Call to end the lifetime of this object.

It is invalid to use this object after this, except for operations which explicitly document they are valid after disposal.

WARNING: This API is provided as a beta preview and may change without notice. Use at your own risk.

#### Signature {#_disposesymbol_-signature}

```typescript
[disposeSymbol](): void;
```

#### Remarks {#_disposesymbol_-remarks}

May cleanup resources retained by this object. Often includes un-registering from events and thus preventing other objects from retaining a reference to this indefinably.

Usually the only operations allowed after disposal are querying if an object is already disposed, but this can vary between implementations.
