{
  "title": "IEditableForest Interface",
  "summary": "Editing APIs.",
  "kind": "Interface",
  "members": {
    "MethodSignature": {
      "acquireVisitor": "/docs/apis/tree2/ieditableforest-interface#acquirevisitor-methodsignature"
    }
  },
  "package": "@fluid-experimental/tree2",
  "unscopedPackageName": "tree2"
}

[//]: # (Do not edit this file. It is automatically generated by @fluidtools/api-markdown-documenter.)

Editing APIs.

WARNING: This API is provided as an alpha preview and may change without notice. Use at your own risk.

## Signature {#ieditableforest-signature}

```typescript
export interface IEditableForest extends IForestSubscription
```

**Extends:** [IForestSubscription](/docs/apis/tree2/iforestsubscription-interface)

## Methods

<table class="table table-striped table-hover">
  <thead>
    <tr>
      <th>
        Method
      </th>
      <th>
        Alerts
      </th>
      <th>
        Return Type
      </th>
      <th>
        Description
      </th>
    </tr>
  </thead>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td>
        <a href='/docs/apis/tree2/ieditableforest-interface#acquirevisitor-methodsignature'>acquireVisitor()</a>
      </td>
      <td>
        <code>ALPHA</code>
      </td>
      <td>
        <span><a href='/docs/apis/tree2/deltavisitor-interface'>DeltaVisitor</a></span>
      </td>
      <td>
        Provides a visitor that can be used to mutate the forest.
      </td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

## Method Details

### acquireVisitor (ALPHA) {#acquirevisitor-methodsignature}

Provides a visitor that can be used to mutate the forest.

WARNING: This API is provided as an alpha preview and may change without notice. Use at your own risk.

#### Signature {#acquirevisitor-signature}

```typescript
acquireVisitor(): DeltaVisitor;
```

#### Remarks {#acquirevisitor-remarks}

Mutating the forest does NOT update anchors. The visitor must be released after use by calling [free()](/docs/apis/tree2/deltavisitor-interface#free-methodsignature) on it. It is invalid to acquire a visitor without releasing the previous one.

#### Returns {#acquirevisitor-returns}

a visitor that can be used to mutate the forest.

**Return type:** [DeltaVisitor](/docs/apis/tree2/deltavisitor-interface)
