{
  "title": "ITree Interface",
  "summary": "Channel for a Fluid Tree DDS.",
  "kind": "Interface",
  "members": {
    "MethodSignature": {
      "schematize": "/docs/apis/tree2/itree-interface#schematize-methodsignature"
    }
  },
  "package": "@fluid-experimental/tree2",
  "unscopedPackageName": "tree2"
}

[//]: # (Do not edit this file. It is automatically generated by @fluidtools/api-markdown-documenter.)

Channel for a Fluid Tree DDS.

WARNING: This API is provided as a beta preview and may change without notice. Use at your own risk.

## Signature {#itree-signature}

```typescript
export interface ITree extends IChannel
```

**Extends:** [IChannel](/docs/apis/datastore-definitions/ichannel-interface)

## Remarks {#itree-remarks}

Allows storing and collaboratively editing schema-aware hierarchial data.

## Methods

<table class="table table-striped table-hover">
  <thead>
    <tr>
      <th>
        Method
      </th>
      <th>
        Alerts
      </th>
      <th>
        Return Type
      </th>
      <th>
        Description
      </th>
    </tr>
  </thead>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td>
        <a href='/docs/apis/tree2/itree-interface#schematize-methodsignature'>schematize(config)</a>
      </td>
      <td>
        <code>BETA</code>
      </td>
      <td>
        <span><a href='/docs/apis/tree2/treeview-interface'>TreeView</a>&lt;<a href='/docs/apis/tree2#treefieldfromimplicitfield-typealias'>TreeFieldFromImplicitField</a>&lt;TRoot&gt;&gt;</span>
      </td>
      <td>
        Returns a tree that is known to be compatible with the provided schema. The returned tree exposes an API that is schema-aware.
      </td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

## Method Details

### schematize (BETA) {#schematize-methodsignature}

Returns a tree that is known to be compatible with the provided schema. The returned tree exposes an API that is schema-aware.

WARNING: This API is provided as a beta preview and may change without notice. Use at your own risk.

#### Signature {#schematize-signature}

```typescript
schematize<TRoot extends ImplicitFieldSchema>(config: TreeConfiguration<TRoot>): TreeView<TreeFieldFromImplicitField<TRoot>>;
```

#### Remarks {#schematize-remarks}

If the tree is uninitialized (has no schema and no content), the tree is initialized with the `initialTree` and view `schema` in the provided `config`.

The tree (now known to have been initialized) has its stored schema checked against the provided view schema.

If the schemas are compatible (including updating the stored schema if permitted via `allowedSchemaModifications`), a [TreeView](/docs/apis/tree2/treeview-interface) is returned, with a schema-aware API based on the provided view schema.

If the schemas are not compatible, an exception is thrown.

#### Parameters {#schematize-parameters}

<table class="table table-striped table-hover">
  <thead>
    <tr>
      <th>
        Parameter
      </th>
      <th>
        Type
      </th>
      <th>
        Description
      </th>
    </tr>
  </thead>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td>
        config
      </td>
      <td>
        <span><a href='/docs/apis/tree2/treeconfiguration-class'>TreeConfiguration</a>&lt;TRoot&gt;</span>
      </td>
      <td>
      </td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

#### Returns {#schematize-returns}

**Return type:** [TreeView](/docs/apis/tree2/treeview-interface)&lt;[TreeFieldFromImplicitField](/docs/apis/tree2#treefieldfromimplicitfield-typealias)&lt;TRoot&gt;&gt;
