{
  "title": "NodeData Interface",
  "summary": "The fields required by a node in a tree.",
  "kind": "Interface",
  "members": {
    "PropertySignature": {
      "type": "/docs/apis/tree2/nodedata-interface#type-propertysignature",
      "value": "/docs/apis/tree2/nodedata-interface#value-propertysignature"
    }
  },
  "package": "@fluid-experimental/tree2",
  "unscopedPackageName": "tree2"
}

[//]: # (Do not edit this file. It is automatically generated by @fluidtools/api-markdown-documenter.)

The fields required by a node in a tree.

WARNING: This API is provided as an alpha preview and may change without notice. Use at your own risk.

## Signature {#nodedata-signature}

```typescript
export interface NodeData
```

## Properties

<table class="table table-striped table-hover">
  <thead>
    <tr>
      <th>
        Property
      </th>
      <th>
        Alerts
      </th>
      <th>
        Modifiers
      </th>
      <th>
        Type
      </th>
      <th>
        Description
      </th>
    </tr>
  </thead>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td>
        <a href='/docs/apis/tree2/nodedata-interface#type-propertysignature'>type</a>
      </td>
      <td>
        <code>ALPHA</code>
      </td>
      <td>
        <code>readonly</code>
      </td>
      <td>
        <span><a href='/docs/apis/tree2#treenodeschemaidentifier-typealias'>TreeNodeSchemaIdentifier</a></span>
      </td>
      <td>
        The meaning of this node. Provides contexts/semantics for this node and its content. Typically used to associate a node with metadata (including a schema) and source code (types, behaviors, etc).
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>
        <a href='/docs/apis/tree2/nodedata-interface#value-propertysignature'>value</a>
      </td>
      <td>
        <code>ALPHA</code>
      </td>
      <td>
        <code>optional</code>
      </td>
      <td>
        <span><a href='/docs/apis/tree2#treevalue-typealias'>TreeValue</a></span>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>
          A payload of arbitrary serializable data.
        </p>
        <p>
          TODO: clarify rules for mutating this value. For now, avoid mutating the TreeValue itself. For example, if its an object, make a modified copy of the object instead of mutating it.
        </p>
      </td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

## Property Details

### type (ALPHA) {#type-propertysignature}

The meaning of this node. Provides contexts/semantics for this node and its content. Typically used to associate a node with metadata (including a schema) and source code (types, behaviors, etc).

WARNING: This API is provided as an alpha preview and may change without notice. Use at your own risk.

#### Signature {#type-signature}

```typescript
readonly type: TreeNodeSchemaIdentifier;
```

### value (ALPHA) {#value-propertysignature}

A payload of arbitrary serializable data.

TODO: clarify rules for mutating this value. For now, avoid mutating the TreeValue itself. For example, if its an object, make a modified copy of the object instead of mutating it.

WARNING: This API is provided as an alpha preview and may change without notice. Use at your own risk.

#### Signature {#value-signature}

```typescript
value?: TreeValue;
```
