{
  "title": "PathRootPrefix Interface",
  "summary": "Prefix to apply as the root of a [UpPath](/docs/apis/tree2/uppath-interface) or [FieldUpPath](/docs/apis/tree2/fielduppath-interface).",
  "kind": "Interface",
  "members": {
    "PropertySignature": {
      "indexOffset": "/docs/apis/tree2/pathrootprefix-interface#indexoffset-propertysignature",
      "parent": "/docs/apis/tree2/pathrootprefix-interface#parent-propertysignature",
      "rootFieldOverride": "/docs/apis/tree2/pathrootprefix-interface#rootfieldoverride-propertysignature"
    }
  },
  "package": "@fluid-experimental/tree2",
  "unscopedPackageName": "tree2"
}

[//]: # (Do not edit this file. It is automatically generated by @fluidtools/api-markdown-documenter.)

Prefix to apply as the root of a [UpPath](/docs/apis/tree2/uppath-interface) or [FieldUpPath](/docs/apis/tree2/fielduppath-interface).

WARNING: This API is provided as an alpha preview and may change without notice. Use at your own risk.

## Signature {#pathrootprefix-signature}

```typescript
export interface PathRootPrefix
```

## Remarks {#pathrootprefix-remarks}

This can be used to take a path relative to a subtree, and make it relative to a larger containing tree. For example, if a node is being inserted in the 5th position in a field "Foo", you can update a path in that node's subtree to its new path by prefixing it with `{ parent: theNodeAboveTheMovedNode, rootFieldOverride: Foo, indexOffset: 5 }`. See [prefixPath(prefix, path)](/docs/apis/tree2#prefixpath-function) and [prefixFieldPath(prefix, path)](/docs/apis/tree2#prefixfieldpath-function) for how to apply the prefix to the paths.

## Properties

<table class="table table-striped table-hover">
  <thead>
    <tr>
      <th>
        Property
      </th>
      <th>
        Alerts
      </th>
      <th>
        Modifiers
      </th>
      <th>
        Type
      </th>
      <th>
        Description
      </th>
    </tr>
  </thead>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td>
        <a href='/docs/apis/tree2/pathrootprefix-interface#indexoffset-propertysignature'>indexOffset</a>
      </td>
      <td>
        <code>ALPHA</code>
      </td>
      <td>
        <code>optional</code>
      </td>
      <td>
        <span>number</span>
      </td>
      <td>
        Offset to add to the uppermost <code>parentIndex</code> in the original path.
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>
        <a href='/docs/apis/tree2/pathrootprefix-interface#parent-propertysignature'>parent</a>
      </td>
      <td>
        <code>ALPHA</code>
      </td>
      <td>
        <code>optional</code>
      </td>
      <td>
        <span><a href='/docs/apis/tree2/uppath-interface'>UpPath</a> &#124; undefined</span>
      </td>
      <td>
        The new parent to place above root of the path which is being prefixed. This replaces the <code>undefined</code> at the root of the path.
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>
        <a href='/docs/apis/tree2/pathrootprefix-interface#rootfieldoverride-propertysignature'>rootFieldOverride</a>
      </td>
      <td>
        <code>ALPHA</code>
      </td>
      <td>
        <code>optional</code>
      </td>
      <td>
        <span><a href='/docs/apis/tree2#fieldkey-typealias'>FieldKey</a></span>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>
          The field of <code>parent</code> that the original path will be included under.
        </p>
        <p>
          If <code>undefined</code> the root field key from the original path will be used.
        </p>
      </td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

## Property Details

### indexOffset (ALPHA) {#indexoffset-propertysignature}

Offset to add to the uppermost `parentIndex` in the original path.

WARNING: This API is provided as an alpha preview and may change without notice. Use at your own risk.

#### Signature {#indexoffset-signature}

```typescript
indexOffset?: number;
```

### parent (ALPHA) {#parent-propertysignature}

The new parent to place above root of the path which is being prefixed. This replaces the `undefined` at the root of the path.

WARNING: This API is provided as an alpha preview and may change without notice. Use at your own risk.

#### Signature {#parent-signature}

```typescript
parent?: UpPath | undefined;
```

#### Remarks {#parent-remarks}

specifying `undefined` here results in no change to the path.

### rootFieldOverride (ALPHA) {#rootfieldoverride-propertysignature}

The field of `parent` that the original path will be included under.

If `undefined` the root field key from the original path will be used.

WARNING: This API is provided as an alpha preview and may change without notice. Use at your own risk.

#### Signature {#rootfieldoverride-signature}

```typescript
rootFieldOverride?: FieldKey;
```
