{
  "title": "UpPath Interface",
  "summary": "Path from a location in the tree upward. UpPaths can be used with deduplicated upper parts to allow working with paths localized to part of the tree without incurring costs related to the depth of the local subtree.\n\nUpPaths can be thought of as terminating at a special root node (that is `undefined`) whose FieldKeys correspond to detached sequences.\n\nUpPaths can be mutated over time and should be considered to be invalidated when any edits occurs: Use of an UpPath that was acquired before the most recent edit is undefined behavior.",
  "kind": "Interface",
  "members": {
    "PropertySignature": {
      "parent": "/docs/apis/tree2/uppath-interface#parent-propertysignature",
      "parentField": "/docs/apis/tree2/uppath-interface#parentfield-propertysignature",
      "parentIndex": "/docs/apis/tree2/uppath-interface#parentindex-propertysignature"
    }
  },
  "package": "@fluid-experimental/tree2",
  "unscopedPackageName": "tree2"
}

[//]: # (Do not edit this file. It is automatically generated by @fluidtools/api-markdown-documenter.)

Path from a location in the tree upward. UpPaths can be used with deduplicated upper parts to allow working with paths localized to part of the tree without incurring costs related to the depth of the local subtree.

UpPaths can be thought of as terminating at a special root node (that is `undefined`) whose FieldKeys correspond to detached sequences.

UpPaths can be mutated over time and should be considered to be invalidated when any edits occurs: Use of an UpPath that was acquired before the most recent edit is undefined behavior.

WARNING: This API is provided as an alpha preview and may change without notice. Use at your own risk.

## Signature {#uppath-signature}

```typescript
export interface UpPath<TParent = UpPathDefault>
```

### Type Parameters

<table class="table table-striped table-hover">
  <thead>
    <tr>
      <th>
        Parameter
      </th>
      <th>
        Modifiers
      </th>
      <th>
        Description
      </th>
    </tr>
  </thead>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td>
        TParent
      </td>
      <td>
        optional
      </td>
      <td>
      </td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

## Properties

<table class="table table-striped table-hover">
  <thead>
    <tr>
      <th>
        Property
      </th>
      <th>
        Alerts
      </th>
      <th>
        Modifiers
      </th>
      <th>
        Type
      </th>
      <th>
        Description
      </th>
    </tr>
  </thead>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td>
        <a href='/docs/apis/tree2/uppath-interface#parent-propertysignature'>parent</a>
      </td>
      <td>
        <code>ALPHA</code>
      </td>
      <td>
        <code>readonly</code>
      </td>
      <td>
        <span>TParent &#124; undefined</span>
      </td>
      <td>
        The parent, or undefined in the case where this path is a member of a detached sequence.
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>
        <a href='/docs/apis/tree2/uppath-interface#parentfield-propertysignature'>parentField</a>
      </td>
      <td>
        <code>ALPHA</code>
      </td>
      <td>
        <code>readonly</code>
      </td>
      <td>
        <span><a href='/docs/apis/tree2#fieldkey-typealias'>FieldKey</a></span>
      </td>
      <td>
        The Field under which this path points. Note that if <code>parent</code> returns <code>undefined</code>, this key corresponds to a detached sequence.
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>
        <a href='/docs/apis/tree2/uppath-interface#parentindex-propertysignature'>parentIndex</a>
      </td>
      <td>
        <code>ALPHA</code>
      </td>
      <td>
        <code>readonly</code>
      </td>
      <td>
        <span><a href='/docs/apis/tree2#nodeindex-typealias'>NodeIndex</a></span>
      </td>
      <td>
        The index within <code>parentField</code> this path is pointing to.
      </td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

## Property Details

### parent (ALPHA) {#parent-propertysignature}

The parent, or undefined in the case where this path is a member of a detached sequence.

WARNING: This API is provided as an alpha preview and may change without notice. Use at your own risk.

#### Signature {#parent-signature}

```typescript
readonly parent: TParent | undefined;
```

### parentField (ALPHA) {#parentfield-propertysignature}

The Field under which this path points. Note that if `parent` returns `undefined`, this key corresponds to a detached sequence.

WARNING: This API is provided as an alpha preview and may change without notice. Use at your own risk.

#### Signature {#parentfield-signature}

```typescript
readonly parentField: FieldKey;
```

### parentIndex (ALPHA) {#parentindex-propertysignature}

The index within `parentField` this path is pointing to.

WARNING: This API is provided as an alpha preview and may change without notice. Use at your own risk.

#### Signature {#parentindex-signature}

```typescript
readonly parentIndex: NodeIndex;
```
