{"kind":"Interface","title":"IChannelFactory Interface","summary":"Definitions of a channel factory.\n\nThe runtime must be able to produce 'channels' of the correct in-memory object type for the collaborative session. Here 'channels' are typically distributed data structures (DDSs).\n\nThe runtime will consult with a registry of such factories during [Container](https://fluidframework.com/docs/build/containers/) load and when receiving 'attach' operations (ops), which indicate a new instance of a channel being introduced to the collaboration session, to produce the appropriate in-memory object.","members":{"PropertySignature":{"attributes":"/docs/apis/datastore-definitions/ichannelfactory#attributes-PropertySignature","type":"/docs/apis/datastore-definitions/ichannelfactory#type-PropertySignature"},"MethodSignature":{"create":"/docs/apis/datastore-definitions/ichannelfactory#create-MethodSignature","load":"/docs/apis/datastore-definitions/ichannelfactory#load-MethodSignature"}},"package":"@fluidframework/datastore-definitions","unscopedPackageName":"datastore-definitions"}

[//]: # (Do not edit this file. It is automatically generated by API Documenter.)

[Packages](/docs/apis/) &gt; [@fluidframework/datastore-definitions](/docs/apis/datastore-definitions) &gt; [IChannelFactory](/docs/apis/datastore-definitions/ichannelfactory)

Definitions of a channel factory.

The runtime must be able to produce "channels" of the correct in-memory object type for the collaborative session. Here "channels" are typically distributed data structures (DDSs).

The runtime will consult with a registry of such factories during [Container](https://fluidframework.com/docs/build/containers/) load and when receiving "attach" operations (ops), which indicate a new instance of a channel being introduced to the collaboration session, to produce the appropriate in-memory object.

<b>Signature:</b>

```typescript
export interface IChannelFactory 
```

## Remarks

Factories follow a common model but enable custom behavior.

## Example

If a collaboration includes a [SharedMap](https://fluidframework.com/docs/data-structures/map/)<!-- -->, a the collaborating clients will need to have access to a factory that can produce the `SharedMap` obect.

## Properties

<table class="table table-striped table-hover property-list">
<caption>List of properties on this interface</caption>
  <thead>
    <tr>
     <th scope="col">Property</th>
 <th scope="col">Type</th>
 <th scope="col">Description</th>
    </tr>
  </thead>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td><a href='/docs/apis/datastore-definitions/ichannelfactory#attributes-PropertySignature'>attributes</a></td>
      <td><a href='/docs/apis/datastore-definitions/ichannelattributes'>IChannelAttributes</a></td>
      <td>Attributes of the channel.</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td><a href='/docs/apis/datastore-definitions/ichannelfactory#type-PropertySignature'>type</a></td>
      <td>string</td>
      <td>String representing the type of the factory.</td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

## Methods

<table class="table table-striped table-hover method-list">
<caption>List of methods on this interface</caption>
  <thead>
    <tr>
     <th scope="col">Method</th>
 <th scope="col">Description</th>
    </tr>
  </thead>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td><a href='/docs/apis/datastore-definitions/ichannelfactory#create-MethodSignature'>create(runtime, id)</a></td>
      <td>Creates a local version of the channel. Calling attach on the object later will insert it into the object stream.</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td><a href='/docs/apis/datastore-definitions/ichannelfactory#load-MethodSignature'>load(runtime, id, services, channelAttributes)</a></td>
      <td>Loads the given channel. This call is only ever invoked internally as the only thing that is ever directly loaded is the document itself. Load will then only be called on documents that were created and added to a channel.</td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

<hr><div id=interface-details>

## Property Details {#properties-details}

### attributes {#attributes-PropertySignature}

Attributes of the channel.

<b>Signature:</b>

```typescript
readonly attributes: IChannelAttributes;
```

### type {#type-PropertySignature}

String representing the type of the factory.

<b>Signature:</b>

```typescript
readonly type: string;
```

## Method Details {#methods-details}

### create {#create-MethodSignature}

Creates a local version of the channel. Calling attach on the object later will insert it into the object stream.

<b>Signature:</b>

```typescript
create(runtime: IFluidDataStoreRuntime, id: string): IChannel;
```

#### Parameters {#create-MethodSignature-parameters}


<table class="table table-striped table-hover param-list">
<caption>List of parameters</caption>
  <thead>
    <tr>
     <th scope="col">Parameter</th>
 <th scope="col">Type</th>
 <th scope="col">Description</th>
    </tr>
  </thead>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td>runtime</td>
      <td><a href='/docs/apis/datastore-definitions/ifluiddatastoreruntime'>IFluidDataStoreRuntime</a></td>
      <td>The runtime the new object will be associated with</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>id</td>
      <td>string</td>
      <td>The unique ID of the new object</td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

#### Returns {#create-MethodSignature-returns}


The newly created object.

<b>Return type(s):</b> [IChannel](/docs/apis/datastore-definitions/ichannel)

### load {#load-MethodSignature}

Loads the given channel. This call is only ever invoked internally as the only thing that is ever directly loaded is the document itself. Load will then only be called on documents that were created and added to a channel.

<b>Signature:</b>

```typescript
load(runtime: IFluidDataStoreRuntime, id: string, services: IChannelServices, channelAttributes: Readonly<IChannelAttributes>): Promise<IChannel>;
```

#### Parameters {#load-MethodSignature-parameters}


<table class="table table-striped table-hover param-list">
<caption>List of parameters</caption>
  <thead>
    <tr>
     <th scope="col">Parameter</th>
 <th scope="col">Type</th>
 <th scope="col">Description</th>
    </tr>
  </thead>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td>runtime</td>
      <td><a href='/docs/apis/datastore-definitions/ifluiddatastoreruntime'>IFluidDataStoreRuntime</a></td>
      <td>Data store runtime containing state/info/helper methods about the data store.</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>id</td>
      <td>string</td>
      <td>ID of the channel.</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>services</td>
      <td><a href='/docs/apis/datastore-definitions/ichannelservices'>IChannelServices</a></td>
      <td>Services to read objects at a given path using the delta connection.</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>channelAttributes</td>
      <td>Readonly<<a href='/docs/apis/datastore-definitions/ichannelattributes'>IChannelAttributes</a>></td>
      <td>The attributes for the the channel to be loaded.</td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

#### Returns {#load-MethodSignature-returns}


The loaded object

<b>Return type(s):</b> Promise&lt;[IChannel](/docs/apis/datastore-definitions/ichannel)<!-- -->&gt;


</div>
