{
  "title": "ICompressionRuntimeOptions Interface",
  "summary": "Options for op compression.",
  "kind": "Interface",
  "members": {
    "PropertySignature": {
      "compressionAlgorithm": "/docs/apis/container-runtime/icompressionruntimeoptions-interface#compressionalgorithm-propertysignature",
      "minimumBatchSizeInBytes": "/docs/apis/container-runtime/icompressionruntimeoptions-interface#minimumbatchsizeinbytes-propertysignature"
    }
  },
  "package": "@fluidframework/container-runtime",
  "unscopedPackageName": "container-runtime"
}

[//]: # (Do not edit this file. It is automatically generated by @fluidtools/api-markdown-documenter.)

Options for op compression.

WARNING: This API is provided as an alpha preview and may change without notice. Use at your own risk.

## Signature {#icompressionruntimeoptions-signature}

```typescript
export interface ICompressionRuntimeOptions
```

## Properties

<table class="table table-striped table-hover">
  <thead>
    <tr>
      <th>
        Property
      </th>
      <th>
        Alerts
      </th>
      <th>
        Modifiers
      </th>
      <th>
        Type
      </th>
      <th>
        Description
      </th>
    </tr>
  </thead>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td>
        <a href='/docs/apis/container-runtime/icompressionruntimeoptions-interface#compressionalgorithm-propertysignature'>compressionAlgorithm</a>
      </td>
      <td>
        <code>ALPHA</code>
      </td>
      <td>
        <code>readonly</code>
      </td>
      <td>
        <span><a href='/docs/apis/container-runtime/compressionalgorithms-enum'>CompressionAlgorithms</a></span>
      </td>
      <td>
        The compression algorithm that will be used to compress the op. By default the value is <code>lz4</code> which is the only compression algorithm currently supported.
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>
        <a href='/docs/apis/container-runtime/icompressionruntimeoptions-interface#minimumbatchsizeinbytes-propertysignature'>minimumBatchSizeInBytes</a>
      </td>
      <td>
        <code>ALPHA</code>
      </td>
      <td>
        <code>readonly</code>
      </td>
      <td>
        <span>number</span>
      </td>
      <td>
        The value the batch's content size must exceed for the batch to be compressed. By default the value is 600 * 1024 = 614400 bytes. If the value is set to <code>Infinity</code>, compression will be disabled.
      </td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

## Property Details

### compressionAlgorithm (ALPHA) {#compressionalgorithm-propertysignature}

The compression algorithm that will be used to compress the op. By default the value is `lz4` which is the only compression algorithm currently supported.

WARNING: This API is provided as an alpha preview and may change without notice. Use at your own risk.

#### Signature {#compressionalgorithm-signature}

```typescript
readonly compressionAlgorithm: CompressionAlgorithms;
```

### minimumBatchSizeInBytes (ALPHA) {#minimumbatchsizeinbytes-propertysignature}

The value the batch's content size must exceed for the batch to be compressed. By default the value is 600 \* 1024 = 614400 bytes. If the value is set to `Infinity`, compression will be disabled.

WARNING: This API is provided as an alpha preview and may change without notice. Use at your own risk.

#### Signature {#minimumbatchsizeinbytes-signature}

```typescript
readonly minimumBatchSizeInBytes: number;
```
