{
  "title": "IGCStats Interface",
  "summary": "The statistics of the system state after a garbage collection run.",
  "kind": "Interface",
  "members": {
    "PropertySignature": {
      "attachmentBlobCount": "/docs/apis/container-runtime/igcstats-interface#attachmentblobcount-propertysignature",
      "dataStoreCount": "/docs/apis/container-runtime/igcstats-interface#datastorecount-propertysignature",
      "nodeCount": "/docs/apis/container-runtime/igcstats-interface#nodecount-propertysignature",
      "unrefAttachmentBlobCount": "/docs/apis/container-runtime/igcstats-interface#unrefattachmentblobcount-propertysignature",
      "unrefDataStoreCount": "/docs/apis/container-runtime/igcstats-interface#unrefdatastorecount-propertysignature",
      "unrefNodeCount": "/docs/apis/container-runtime/igcstats-interface#unrefnodecount-propertysignature",
      "updatedAttachmentBlobCount": "/docs/apis/container-runtime/igcstats-interface#updatedattachmentblobcount-propertysignature",
      "updatedDataStoreCount": "/docs/apis/container-runtime/igcstats-interface#updateddatastorecount-propertysignature",
      "updatedNodeCount": "/docs/apis/container-runtime/igcstats-interface#updatednodecount-propertysignature"
    }
  },
  "package": "@fluidframework/container-runtime",
  "unscopedPackageName": "container-runtime"
}

[//]: # (Do not edit this file. It is automatically generated by @fluidtools/api-markdown-documenter.)

[Packages](/docs/apis/) &gt; [@fluidframework/container-runtime](/docs/apis/container-runtime) &gt; [IGCStats](/docs/apis/container-runtime/igcstats-interface)

The statistics of the system state after a garbage collection run.

## Signature {#igcstats-signature}

```typescript
export interface IGCStats
```

## Properties

<table class="table table-striped table-hover">
  <thead>
    <tr>
      <th>
        Property
      </th>
      <th>
        Type
      </th>
      <th>
        Description
      </th>
    </tr>
  </thead>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td>
        <a href='/docs/apis/container-runtime/igcstats-interface#attachmentblobcount-propertysignature'>attachmentBlobCount</a>
      </td>
      <td>
        <span>number</span>
      </td>
      <td>
        The number of attachment blobs in the container.
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>
        <a href='/docs/apis/container-runtime/igcstats-interface#datastorecount-propertysignature'>dataStoreCount</a>
      </td>
      <td>
        <span>number</span>
      </td>
      <td>
        The number of data stores in the container.
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>
        <a href='/docs/apis/container-runtime/igcstats-interface#nodecount-propertysignature'>nodeCount</a>
      </td>
      <td>
        <span>number</span>
      </td>
      <td>
        The number of nodes in the container.
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>
        <a href='/docs/apis/container-runtime/igcstats-interface#unrefattachmentblobcount-propertysignature'>unrefAttachmentBlobCount</a>
      </td>
      <td>
        <span>number</span>
      </td>
      <td>
        The number of unreferenced attachment blobs in the container.
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>
        <a href='/docs/apis/container-runtime/igcstats-interface#unrefdatastorecount-propertysignature'>unrefDataStoreCount</a>
      </td>
      <td>
        <span>number</span>
      </td>
      <td>
        The number of unreferenced data stores in the container.
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>
        <a href='/docs/apis/container-runtime/igcstats-interface#unrefnodecount-propertysignature'>unrefNodeCount</a>
      </td>
      <td>
        <span>number</span>
      </td>
      <td>
        The number of unreferenced nodes in the container.
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>
        <a href='/docs/apis/container-runtime/igcstats-interface#updatedattachmentblobcount-propertysignature'>updatedAttachmentBlobCount</a>
      </td>
      <td>
        <span>number</span>
      </td>
      <td>
        The number of attachment blobs whose reference state updated since last GC run.
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>
        <a href='/docs/apis/container-runtime/igcstats-interface#updateddatastorecount-propertysignature'>updatedDataStoreCount</a>
      </td>
      <td>
        <span>number</span>
      </td>
      <td>
        The number of data stores whose reference state updated since last GC run.
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>
        <a href='/docs/apis/container-runtime/igcstats-interface#updatednodecount-propertysignature'>updatedNodeCount</a>
      </td>
      <td>
        <span>number</span>
      </td>
      <td>
        The number of nodes whose reference state updated since last GC run.
      </td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

## Property Details

### attachmentBlobCount {#attachmentblobcount-propertysignature}

The number of attachment blobs in the container.

#### Signature {#attachmentblobcount-signature}

```typescript
attachmentBlobCount: number;
```

### dataStoreCount {#datastorecount-propertysignature}

The number of data stores in the container.

#### Signature {#datastorecount-signature}

```typescript
dataStoreCount: number;
```

### nodeCount {#nodecount-propertysignature}

The number of nodes in the container.

#### Signature {#nodecount-signature}

```typescript
nodeCount: number;
```

### unrefAttachmentBlobCount {#unrefattachmentblobcount-propertysignature}

The number of unreferenced attachment blobs in the container.

#### Signature {#unrefattachmentblobcount-signature}

```typescript
unrefAttachmentBlobCount: number;
```

### unrefDataStoreCount {#unrefdatastorecount-propertysignature}

The number of unreferenced data stores in the container.

#### Signature {#unrefdatastorecount-signature}

```typescript
unrefDataStoreCount: number;
```

### unrefNodeCount {#unrefnodecount-propertysignature}

The number of unreferenced nodes in the container.

#### Signature {#unrefnodecount-signature}

```typescript
unrefNodeCount: number;
```

### updatedAttachmentBlobCount {#updatedattachmentblobcount-propertysignature}

The number of attachment blobs whose reference state updated since last GC run.

#### Signature {#updatedattachmentblobcount-signature}

```typescript
updatedAttachmentBlobCount: number;
```

### updatedDataStoreCount {#updateddatastorecount-propertysignature}

The number of data stores whose reference state updated since last GC run.

#### Signature {#updateddatastorecount-signature}

```typescript
updatedDataStoreCount: number;
```

### updatedNodeCount {#updatednodecount-propertysignature}

The number of nodes whose reference state updated since last GC run.

#### Signature {#updatednodecount-signature}

```typescript
updatedNodeCount: number;
```
