{
  "title": "ISubmitSummaryOpResult Interface",
  "summary": "Results of submitSummary after submitting the summarize op.",
  "kind": "Interface",
  "members": {
    "PropertySignature": {
      "clientSequenceNumber": "/docs/apis/container-runtime/isubmitsummaryopresult-interface#clientsequencenumber-propertysignature",
      "stage": "/docs/apis/container-runtime/isubmitsummaryopresult-interface#stage-propertysignature",
      "submitOpDuration": "/docs/apis/container-runtime/isubmitsummaryopresult-interface#submitopduration-propertysignature"
    }
  },
  "package": "@fluidframework/container-runtime",
  "unscopedPackageName": "container-runtime"
}

[//]: # (Do not edit this file. It is automatically generated by @fluidtools/api-markdown-documenter.)

Results of submitSummary after submitting the summarize op.

WARNING: This API is provided as an alpha preview and may change without notice. Use at your own risk.

## Signature {#isubmitsummaryopresult-signature}

```typescript
export interface ISubmitSummaryOpResult extends Omit<IUploadSummaryResult, "stage" | "error">
```

**Extends:** Omit&lt;[IUploadSummaryResult](/docs/apis/container-runtime/iuploadsummaryresult-interface), "stage" \| "error"&gt;

## Properties

<table class="table table-striped table-hover">
  <thead>
    <tr>
      <th>
        Property
      </th>
      <th>
        Alerts
      </th>
      <th>
        Modifiers
      </th>
      <th>
        Type
      </th>
      <th>
        Description
      </th>
    </tr>
  </thead>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td>
        <a href='/docs/apis/container-runtime/isubmitsummaryopresult-interface#clientsequencenumber-propertysignature'>clientSequenceNumber</a>
      </td>
      <td>
        <code>ALPHA</code>
      </td>
      <td>
        <code>readonly</code>
      </td>
      <td>
        <span>number</span>
      </td>
      <td>
        The client sequence number of the summarize op submitted for the summary.
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>
        <a href='/docs/apis/container-runtime/isubmitsummaryopresult-interface#stage-propertysignature'>stage</a>
      </td>
      <td>
        <code>ALPHA</code>
      </td>
      <td>
        <code>readonly</code>
      </td>
      <td>
        <span>&quot;submit&quot;</span>
      </td>
      <td>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>
        <a href='/docs/apis/container-runtime/isubmitsummaryopresult-interface#submitopduration-propertysignature'>submitOpDuration</a>
      </td>
      <td>
        <code>ALPHA</code>
      </td>
      <td>
        <code>readonly</code>
      </td>
      <td>
        <span>number</span>
      </td>
      <td>
        Time it took to submit the summarize op to the broadcasting service.
      </td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

## Property Details

### clientSequenceNumber (ALPHA) {#clientsequencenumber-propertysignature}

The client sequence number of the summarize op submitted for the summary.

WARNING: This API is provided as an alpha preview and may change without notice. Use at your own risk.

#### Signature {#clientsequencenumber-signature}

```typescript
readonly clientSequenceNumber: number;
```

### stage (ALPHA) {#stage-propertysignature}

WARNING: This API is provided as an alpha preview and may change without notice. Use at your own risk.

#### Signature {#stage-signature}

```typescript
readonly stage: "submit";
```

### submitOpDuration (ALPHA) {#submitopduration-propertysignature}

Time it took to submit the summarize op to the broadcasting service.

WARNING: This API is provided as an alpha preview and may change without notice. Use at your own risk.

#### Signature {#submitopduration-signature}

```typescript
readonly submitOpDuration: number;
```
