{
  "title": "ISummarizeOptions Interface",
  "summary": "Options affecting summarize behavior.",
  "kind": "Interface",
  "members": {
    "PropertySignature": {
      "fullTree": "/docs/apis/container-runtime/isummarizeoptions-interface#fulltree-propertysignature",
      "refreshLatestAck": "/docs/apis/container-runtime/isummarizeoptions-interface#refreshlatestack-propertysignature"
    }
  },
  "package": "@fluidframework/container-runtime",
  "unscopedPackageName": "container-runtime"
}

[//]: # (Do not edit this file. It is automatically generated by @fluidtools/api-markdown-documenter.)

Options affecting summarize behavior.

WARNING: This API is provided as an alpha preview and may change without notice. Use at your own risk.

## Signature {#isummarizeoptions-signature}

```typescript
export interface ISummarizeOptions
```

## Properties

<table class="table table-striped table-hover">
  <thead>
    <tr>
      <th>
        Property
      </th>
      <th>
        Alerts
      </th>
      <th>
        Modifiers
      </th>
      <th>
        Type
      </th>
      <th>
        Description
      </th>
    </tr>
  </thead>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td>
        <a href='/docs/apis/container-runtime/isummarizeoptions-interface#fulltree-propertysignature'>fullTree</a>
      </td>
      <td>
        <code>ALPHA</code>
      </td>
      <td>
        <code>optional</code>, <code>readonly</code>
      </td>
      <td>
        <span>boolean</span>
      </td>
      <td>
        True to generate the full tree with no handle reuse optimizations; defaults to false
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>
        <a href='/docs/apis/container-runtime/isummarizeoptions-interface#refreshlatestack-propertysignature'>refreshLatestAck</a>
      </td>
      <td>
        <code>ALPHA</code>, <code>DEPRECATED</code>
      </td>
      <td>
        <code>optional</code>, <code>readonly</code>
      </td>
      <td>
        <span>boolean</span>
      </td>
      <td>
        True to ask the server what the latest summary is first; defaults to false
      </td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

## Property Details

### fullTree (ALPHA) {#fulltree-propertysignature}

True to generate the full tree with no handle reuse optimizations; defaults to false

WARNING: This API is provided as an alpha preview and may change without notice. Use at your own risk.

#### Signature {#fulltree-signature}

```typescript
readonly fullTree?: boolean;
```

### refreshLatestAck (ALPHA) {#refreshlatestack-propertysignature}

True to ask the server what the latest summary is first; defaults to false

{{% callout warning This API is deprecated and will be removed in a future release. %}}
Summarize will not refresh latest snapshot state anymore. Instead it updates the cache and closes. It's expected a new summarizer client will be created, likely by the same parent.

{{% /callout %}}

WARNING: This API is provided as an alpha preview and may change without notice. Use at your own risk.

#### Signature {#refreshlatestack-signature}

```typescript
readonly refreshLatestAck?: boolean;
```
