{
  "title": "ContainerSchema Interface",
  "summary": "Declares the Fluid objects that will be available in the [Container](/docs/apis/fluid-static/ifluidcontainer-interface).",
  "kind": "Interface",
  "members": {
    "PropertySignature": {
      "dynamicObjectTypes": "/docs/apis/fluid-static/containerschema-interface#dynamicobjecttypes-propertysignature",
      "initialObjects": "/docs/apis/fluid-static/containerschema-interface#initialobjects-propertysignature"
    }
  },
  "package": "@fluidframework/fluid-static",
  "unscopedPackageName": "fluid-static"
}

[//]: # (Do not edit this file. It is automatically generated by @fluidtools/api-markdown-documenter.)

Declares the Fluid objects that will be available in the [Container](/docs/apis/fluid-static/ifluidcontainer-interface).

## Signature {#containerschema-signature}

```typescript
export interface ContainerSchema
```

## Remarks {#containerschema-remarks}

It includes both the instances of objects that are initially available upon `Container` creation, as well as the types of objects that may be dynamically created throughout the lifetime of the `Container`.

## Properties

<table class="table table-striped table-hover">
  <thead>
    <tr>
      <th>
        Property
      </th>
      <th>
        Modifiers
      </th>
      <th>
        Type
      </th>
      <th>
        Description
      </th>
    </tr>
  </thead>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td>
        <a href='/docs/apis/fluid-static/containerschema-interface#dynamicobjecttypes-propertysignature'>dynamicObjectTypes</a>
      </td>
      <td>
        <code>optional</code>
      </td>
      <td>
        <span><a href='/docs/apis/fluid-static#loadableobjectclass-typealias'>LoadableObjectClass</a>&lt;any&gt;[]</span>
      </td>
      <td>
        Loadable objects that can be created after the initial <a href='/docs/apis/fluid-static/ifluidcontainer-interface'>Container</a> creation.
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>
        <a href='/docs/apis/fluid-static/containerschema-interface#initialobjects-propertysignature'>initialObjects</a>
      </td>
      <td>
      </td>
      <td>
        <span><a href='/docs/apis/fluid-static#loadableobjectclassrecord-typealias'>LoadableObjectClassRecord</a></span>
      </td>
      <td>
        Defines loadable objects that will be created when the <a href='/docs/apis/fluid-static/ifluidcontainer-interface'>Container</a> is first created.
      </td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

## Property Details

### dynamicObjectTypes {#dynamicobjecttypes-propertysignature}

Loadable objects that can be created after the initial [Container](/docs/apis/fluid-static/ifluidcontainer-interface) creation.

#### Signature {#dynamicobjecttypes-signature}

```typescript
dynamicObjectTypes?: LoadableObjectClass<any>[];
```

#### Remarks {#dynamicobjecttypes-remarks}

Types defined in `initialObjects` will always be available and are not required to be provided here.

For best practice it's recommended to define all the dynamic types you create even if they are included via initialObjects.

### initialObjects {#initialobjects-propertysignature}

Defines loadable objects that will be created when the [Container](/docs/apis/fluid-static/ifluidcontainer-interface) is first created.

#### Signature {#initialobjects-signature}

```typescript
initialObjects: LoadableObjectClassRecord;
```

#### Remarks {#initialobjects-remarks}

It uses the key as the id and the value as the loadable object to create.

#### Example {#initialobjects-example}

In the example below two objects will be created when the `Container` is first created. One with id "map1" that will return a `SharedMap` and the other with id "pair1" that will return a `KeyValueDataObject`.

```typescript
{
  map1: SharedMap,
  pair1: KeyValueDataObject,
}
```
