{
  "title": "IFluidContainer Interface",
  "summary": "Provides an entrypoint into the client side of collaborative Fluid data. Provides access to the data as well as status on the collaboration session.",
  "kind": "Interface",
  "members": {
    "MethodSignature": {
      "attach": "/docs/apis/fluid-static/ifluidcontainer-interface#attach-methodsignature",
      "connect": "/docs/apis/fluid-static/ifluidcontainer-interface#connect-methodsignature",
      "create": "/docs/apis/fluid-static/ifluidcontainer-interface#create-methodsignature",
      "disconnect": "/docs/apis/fluid-static/ifluidcontainer-interface#disconnect-methodsignature",
      "dispose": "/docs/apis/fluid-static/ifluidcontainer-interface#dispose-methodsignature"
    },
    "PropertySignature": {
      "attachState": "/docs/apis/fluid-static/ifluidcontainer-interface#attachstate-propertysignature",
      "connectionState": "/docs/apis/fluid-static/ifluidcontainer-interface#connectionstate-propertysignature",
      "disposed": "/docs/apis/fluid-static/ifluidcontainer-interface#disposed-propertysignature",
      "initialObjects": "/docs/apis/fluid-static/ifluidcontainer-interface#initialobjects-propertysignature",
      "isDirty": "/docs/apis/fluid-static/ifluidcontainer-interface#isdirty-propertysignature"
    }
  },
  "package": "@fluidframework/fluid-static",
  "unscopedPackageName": "fluid-static"
}

[//]: # (Do not edit this file. It is automatically generated by @fluidtools/api-markdown-documenter.)

Provides an entrypoint into the client side of collaborative Fluid data. Provides access to the data as well as status on the collaboration session.

## Signature {#ifluidcontainer-signature}

```typescript
/** @sealed */
export interface IFluidContainer<TContainerSchema extends ContainerSchema = ContainerSchema> extends IEventProvider<IFluidContainerEvents>
```

**Extends:** [IEventProvider](/docs/apis/core-interfaces/ieventprovider-interface)&lt;[IFluidContainerEvents](/docs/apis/fluid-static/ifluidcontainerevents-interface)&gt;

### Type Parameters

<table class="table table-striped table-hover">
  <thead>
    <tr>
      <th>
        Parameter
      </th>
      <th>
        Modifiers
      </th>
      <th>
        Description
      </th>
    </tr>
  </thead>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td>
        TContainerSchema
      </td>
      <td>
        optional
      </td>
      <td>
        Used to determine the type of 'initialObjects'.
        <br>
      </td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

## Remarks {#ifluidcontainer-remarks}

Note: external implementations of this interface are not supported.

## Properties

<table class="table table-striped table-hover">
  <thead>
    <tr>
      <th>
        Property
      </th>
      <th>
        Modifiers
      </th>
      <th>
        Type
      </th>
      <th>
        Description
      </th>
    </tr>
  </thead>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td>
        <a href='/docs/apis/fluid-static/ifluidcontainer-interface#attachstate-propertysignature'>attachState</a>
      </td>
      <td>
        <code>readonly</code>
      </td>
      <td>
        <span><a href='/docs/apis/container-definitions/attachstate-enum'>AttachState</a></span>
      </td>
      <td>
        The current attachment state of the container.
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>
        <a href='/docs/apis/fluid-static/ifluidcontainer-interface#connectionstate-propertysignature'>connectionState</a>
      </td>
      <td>
        <code>readonly</code>
      </td>
      <td>
        <span><a href='/docs/apis/container-definitions#connectionstate-typealias'>ConnectionState</a></span>
      </td>
      <td>
        Provides the current connected state of the container
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>
        <a href='/docs/apis/fluid-static/ifluidcontainer-interface#disposed-propertysignature'>disposed</a>
      </td>
      <td>
        <code>readonly</code>
      </td>
      <td>
        <span>boolean</span>
      </td>
      <td>
        Whether or not the container is disposed, which permanently disables it.
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>
        <a href='/docs/apis/fluid-static/ifluidcontainer-interface#initialobjects-propertysignature'>initialObjects</a>
      </td>
      <td>
        <code>readonly</code>
      </td>
      <td>
        <span><a href='/docs/apis/fluid-static#initialobjects-typealias'>InitialObjects</a>&lt;TContainerSchema&gt;</span>
      </td>
      <td>
        The collection of data objects and Distributed Data Stores (DDSes) that were specified by the schema.
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>
        <a href='/docs/apis/fluid-static/ifluidcontainer-interface#isdirty-propertysignature'>isDirty</a>
      </td>
      <td>
        <code>readonly</code>
      </td>
      <td>
        <span>boolean</span>
      </td>
      <td>
        A container is considered **dirty** if it has local changes that have not yet been acknowledged by the service.
      </td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

## Methods

<table class="table table-striped table-hover">
  <thead>
    <tr>
      <th>
        Method
      </th>
      <th>
        Return Type
      </th>
      <th>
        Description
      </th>
    </tr>
  </thead>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td>
        <a href='/docs/apis/fluid-static/ifluidcontainer-interface#attach-methodsignature'>attach()</a>
      </td>
      <td>
        <span>Promise&lt;string&gt;</span>
      </td>
      <td>
        A newly created container starts detached from the collaborative service. Calling <code>attach()</code> uploads the new container to the service and connects to the collaborative service.
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>
        <a href='/docs/apis/fluid-static/ifluidcontainer-interface#connect-methodsignature'>connect()</a>
      </td>
      <td>
        <span>void</span>
      </td>
      <td>
        Attempts to connect the container to the delta stream and process operations.
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>
        <a href='/docs/apis/fluid-static/ifluidcontainer-interface#create-methodsignature'>create(objectClass)</a>
      </td>
      <td>
        <span>Promise&lt;T&gt;</span>
      </td>
      <td>
        Create a new data object or Distributed Data Store (DDS) of the specified type.
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>
        <a href='/docs/apis/fluid-static/ifluidcontainer-interface#disconnect-methodsignature'>disconnect()</a>
      </td>
      <td>
        <span>void</span>
      </td>
      <td>
        Disconnects the container from the delta stream and stops processing operations.
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>
        <a href='/docs/apis/fluid-static/ifluidcontainer-interface#dispose-methodsignature'>dispose()</a>
      </td>
      <td>
        <span>void</span>
      </td>
      <td>
        Dispose of the container instance, permanently disabling it.
      </td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

## Property Details

### attachState {#attachstate-propertysignature}

The current attachment state of the container.

#### Signature {#attachstate-signature}

```typescript
readonly attachState: AttachState;
```

#### Remarks {#attachstate-remarks}

Once a container has been attached, it remains attached. When loading an existing container, it will already be attached.

### connectionState {#connectionstate-propertysignature}

Provides the current connected state of the container

#### Signature {#connectionstate-signature}

```typescript
readonly connectionState: ConnectionState;
```

### disposed {#disposed-propertysignature}

Whether or not the container is disposed, which permanently disables it.

#### Signature {#disposed-signature}

```typescript
readonly disposed: boolean;
```

### initialObjects {#initialobjects-propertysignature}

The collection of data objects and Distributed Data Stores (DDSes) that were specified by the schema.

#### Signature {#initialobjects-signature}

```typescript
readonly initialObjects: InitialObjects<TContainerSchema>;
```

#### Remarks {#initialobjects-remarks}

These data objects and DDSes exist for the lifetime of the container.

### isDirty {#isdirty-propertysignature}

A container is considered \*\*dirty\*\* if it has local changes that have not yet been acknowledged by the service.

#### Signature {#isdirty-signature}

```typescript
readonly isDirty: boolean;
```

#### Remarks {#isdirty-remarks}

You should always check the `isDirty` flag before closing the container or navigating away from the page. Closing the container while `isDirty === true` may result in the loss of operations that have not yet been acknowledged by the service.

A container is considered dirty in the following cases:

1. The container has been created in the detached state, and either it has not been attached yet or it is in the process of being attached (container is in `attaching` state). If container is closed prior to being attached, host may never know if the file was created or not.

2. The container was attached, but it has local changes that have not yet been saved to service endpoint. This occurs as part of normal op flow where pending operation (changes) are awaiting acknowledgement from the service. In some cases this can be due to lack of network connection. If the network connection is down, it needs to be restored for the pending changes to be acknowledged.

## Method Details

### attach {#attach-methodsignature}

A newly created container starts detached from the collaborative service. Calling `attach()` uploads the new container to the service and connects to the collaborative service.

#### Signature {#attach-signature}

```typescript
attach(): Promise<string>;
```

#### Remarks {#attach-remarks}

This should only be called when the container is in the _@fluidframework/container-definitions\#AttachState.Detatched_ state.

This can be determined by observing [attachState](/docs/apis/fluid-static/ifluidcontainer-interface#attachstate-propertysignature).

#### Returns {#attach-returns}

A promise which resolves when the attach is complete, with the string identifier of the container.

**Return type:** Promise&lt;string&gt;

### connect {#connect-methodsignature}

Attempts to connect the container to the delta stream and process operations.

#### Signature {#connect-signature}

```typescript
connect(): void;
```

#### Remarks {#connect-remarks}

This should only be called when the container is in the _@fluidframework/container-definitions\#ConnectionState.Disconnected_ state.

This can be determined by observing [connectionState](/docs/apis/fluid-static/ifluidcontainer-interface#connectionstate-propertysignature).

#### Error Handling {#connect-throws}

Will throw an error if connection is unsuccessful.

### create {#create-methodsignature}

Create a new data object or Distributed Data Store (DDS) of the specified type.

#### Signature {#create-signature}

```typescript
create<T extends IFluidLoadable>(objectClass: LoadableObjectClass<T>): Promise<T>;
```

#### Remarks {#create-remarks}

In order to share the data object or DDS with other collaborators and retrieve it later, store its handle in a collection like a SharedDirectory from your initialObjects.

#### Parameters {#create-parameters}

<table class="table table-striped table-hover">
  <thead>
    <tr>
      <th>
        Parameter
      </th>
      <th>
        Type
      </th>
      <th>
        Description
      </th>
    </tr>
  </thead>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td>
        objectClass
      </td>
      <td>
        <span><a href='/docs/apis/fluid-static#loadableobjectclass-typealias'>LoadableObjectClass</a>&lt;T&gt;</span>
      </td>
      <td>
        The class of the <code>DataObject</code> or <code>SharedObject</code> to create.
      </td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

#### Returns {#create-returns}

**Return type:** Promise&lt;T&gt;

### disconnect {#disconnect-methodsignature}

Disconnects the container from the delta stream and stops processing operations.

#### Signature {#disconnect-signature}

```typescript
disconnect(): void;
```

#### Remarks {#disconnect-remarks}

This should only be called when the container is in the _@fluidframework/container-definitions\#ConnectionState.Connected_ state.

This can be determined by observing [connectionState](/docs/apis/fluid-static/ifluidcontainer-interface#connectionstate-propertysignature).

### dispose {#dispose-methodsignature}

Dispose of the container instance, permanently disabling it.

#### Signature {#dispose-signature}

```typescript
dispose(): void;
```
