{
  "title": "IServiceAudience Interface",
  "summary": "Base interface to be implemented to fetch each service's audience.",
  "kind": "Interface",
  "members": {
    "MethodSignature": {
      "getMembers": "/docs/apis/fluid-static/iserviceaudience-interface#getmembers-methodsignature",
      "getMyself": "/docs/apis/fluid-static/iserviceaudience-interface#getmyself-methodsignature"
    }
  },
  "package": "@fluidframework/fluid-static",
  "unscopedPackageName": "fluid-static"
}

[//]: # (Do not edit this file. It is automatically generated by @fluidtools/api-markdown-documenter.)

Base interface to be implemented to fetch each service's audience.

## Signature {#iserviceaudience-signature}

```typescript
export interface IServiceAudience<M extends IMember> extends IEventProvider<IServiceAudienceEvents<M>>
```

**Extends:** [IEventProvider](/docs/apis/core-interfaces/ieventprovider-interface)&lt;[IServiceAudienceEvents](/docs/apis/fluid-static/iserviceaudienceevents-interface)&lt;M&gt;&gt;

### Type Parameters

<table class="table table-striped table-hover">
  <thead>
    <tr>
      <th>
        Parameter
      </th>
      <th>
        Description
      </th>
    </tr>
  </thead>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td>
        M
      </td>
      <td>
        A service-specific <a href='/docs/apis/fluid-static/imember-interface'>IMember</a> type.
      </td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

## Remarks {#iserviceaudience-remarks}

The type parameter `M` allows consumers to further extend the client object with service-specific details about the connecting client, such as device information, environment, or a username.

## Methods

<table class="table table-striped table-hover">
  <thead>
    <tr>
      <th>
        Method
      </th>
      <th>
        Return Type
      </th>
      <th>
        Description
      </th>
    </tr>
  </thead>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td>
        <a href='/docs/apis/fluid-static/iserviceaudience-interface#getmembers-methodsignature'>getMembers()</a>
      </td>
      <td>
        <span>Map&lt;string, M&gt;</span>
      </td>
      <td>
        Returns an map of all users currently in the Fluid session where key is the userId and the value is the member object. The implementation may choose to exclude certain connections from the returned map. E.g. ServiceAudience excludes non-interactive connections to represent only the roster of live users.
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>
        <a href='/docs/apis/fluid-static/iserviceaudience-interface#getmyself-methodsignature'>getMyself()</a>
      </td>
      <td>
        <span><a href='/docs/apis/fluid-static#myself-typealias'>Myself</a>&lt;M&gt; &#124; undefined</span>
      </td>
      <td>
        Returns the current active user on this client once they are connected. Otherwise, returns undefined.
      </td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

## Method Details

### getMembers {#getmembers-methodsignature}

Returns an map of all users currently in the Fluid session where key is the userId and the value is the member object. The implementation may choose to exclude certain connections from the returned map. E.g. ServiceAudience excludes non-interactive connections to represent only the roster of live users.

#### Signature {#getmembers-signature}

```typescript
getMembers(): Map<string, M>;
```

#### Returns {#getmembers-returns}

**Return type:** Map&lt;string, M&gt;

### getMyself {#getmyself-methodsignature}

Returns the current active user on this client once they are connected. Otherwise, returns undefined.

#### Signature {#getmyself-signature}

```typescript
getMyself(): Myself<M> | undefined;
```

#### Returns {#getmyself-returns}

**Return type:** [Myself](/docs/apis/fluid-static#myself-typealias)&lt;M&gt; \| undefined
