{"kind":"Interface","title":"ICreateStrokeOperation Interface","summary":"Create stroke operations notify clients that a new stroke has been created, along with basic information about the stroke.","members":{"PropertySignature":{"id":"/docs/apis/ink/icreatestrokeoperation#id-PropertySignature","pen":"/docs/apis/ink/icreatestrokeoperation#pen-PropertySignature","time":"/docs/apis/ink/icreatestrokeoperation#time-PropertySignature","type":"/docs/apis/ink/icreatestrokeoperation#type-PropertySignature"}},"package":"@fluidframework/ink","unscopedPackageName":"ink"}

[//]: # (Do not edit this file. It is automatically generated by API Documenter.)

[Packages](/docs/apis/) &gt; [@fluidframework/ink](/docs/apis/ink) &gt; [ICreateStrokeOperation](/docs/apis/ink/icreatestrokeoperation)

Create stroke operations notify clients that a new stroke has been created, along with basic information about the stroke.

<b>Signature:</b>

```typescript
export interface ICreateStrokeOperation 
```

## Properties

<table class="table table-striped table-hover property-list">
<caption>List of properties on this interface</caption>
  <thead>
    <tr>
     <th scope="col">Property</th>
 <th scope="col">Type</th>
 <th scope="col">Description</th>
    </tr>
  </thead>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td><a href='/docs/apis/ink/icreatestrokeoperation#id-PropertySignature'>id</a></td>
      <td>string</td>
      <td>Unique ID that will be used to reference this stroke.</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td><a href='/docs/apis/ink/icreatestrokeoperation#pen-PropertySignature'>pen</a></td>
      <td><a href='/docs/apis/ink/ipen'>IPen</a></td>
      <td>Description of the pen used to create the stroke.</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td><a href='/docs/apis/ink/icreatestrokeoperation#time-PropertySignature'>time</a></td>
      <td>number</td>
      <td>Time, in milliseconds, that the operation occurred on the originating device.</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td><a href='/docs/apis/ink/icreatestrokeoperation#type-PropertySignature'>type</a></td>
      <td>"createStroke"</td>
      <td>String identifier for the operation type.</td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

<hr><div id=interface-details>

## Property Details {#properties-details}

### id {#id-PropertySignature}

Unique ID that will be used to reference this stroke.

<b>Signature:</b>

```typescript
id: string;
```

### pen {#pen-PropertySignature}

Description of the pen used to create the stroke.

<b>Signature:</b>

```typescript
pen: IPen;
```

### time {#time-PropertySignature}

Time, in milliseconds, that the operation occurred on the originating device.

<b>Signature:</b>

```typescript
time: number;
```

### type {#type-PropertySignature}

String identifier for the operation type.

<b>Signature:</b>

```typescript
type: "createStroke";
```

</div>
