{
  "title": "IIntervalCollectionEvent Interface",
  "summary": "Change events emitted by `IntervalCollection`s",
  "kind": "Interface",
  "members": {
    "CallSignature": {
      "(call)": "/docs/apis/sequence/iintervalcollectionevent-interface#_call__2-callsignature"
    }
  },
  "package": "@fluidframework/sequence",
  "unscopedPackageName": "sequence"
}

[//]: # (Do not edit this file. It is automatically generated by @fluidtools/api-markdown-documenter.)

Change events emitted by `IntervalCollection`s

WARNING: This API is provided as an alpha preview and may change without notice. Use at your own risk.

## Signature {#iintervalcollectionevent-signature}

```typescript
export interface IIntervalCollectionEvent<TInterval extends ISerializableInterval> extends IEvent
```

**Extends:** [IEvent](/docs/apis/core-interfaces/ievent-interface)

### Type Parameters

<table class="table table-striped table-hover">
  <thead>
    <tr>
      <th>
        Parameter
      </th>
      <th>
        Description
      </th>
    </tr>
  </thead>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td>
        TInterval
      </td>
      <td>
      </td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

## Call Signatures

<table class="table table-striped table-hover">
  <thead>
    <tr>
      <th>
        CallSignature
      </th>
      <th>
        Alerts
      </th>
      <th>
        Description
      </th>
    </tr>
  </thead>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td>
        <a href='/docs/apis/sequence/iintervalcollectionevent-interface#_call_-callsignature'>(event: &quot;changeInterval&quot;, listener: (interval: TInterval, previousInterval: TInterval, local: boolean, op: ISequencedDocumentMessage &#124; undefined, slide: boolean) =&gt; void): void</a>
      </td>
      <td>
        <code>ALPHA</code>
      </td>
      <td>
        This event is invoked whenever the endpoints of an interval may have changed. This can happen on: - local endpoint modification - ack of a remote endpoint modification - position change due to segment sliding (slides due to mergeTree segment deletion will always appear local) The <code>interval</code> argument reflects the new values. <code>previousInterval</code> contains transient <code>ReferencePosition</code>s at the same location as the interval's original endpoints. These references should be used for position information only. <code>local</code> reflects whether the change originated locally. <code>op</code> is defined if and only if the server has acked this change. <code>slide</code> is true if the change is due to sliding on removal of position
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>
        <a href='/docs/apis/sequence/iintervalcollectionevent-interface#_call__1-callsignature'>(event: &quot;addInterval&quot; &#124; &quot;deleteInterval&quot;, listener: (interval: TInterval, local: boolean, op: ISequencedDocumentMessage &#124; undefined) =&gt; void): void</a>
      </td>
      <td>
        <code>ALPHA</code>
      </td>
      <td>
        This event is invoked whenever an interval is added or removed from the collection. <code>local</code> reflects whether the change originated locally. <code>op</code> is defined if and only if the server has acked this change.
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>
        <a href='/docs/apis/sequence/iintervalcollectionevent-interface#_call__2-callsignature'>(event: &quot;propertyChanged&quot;, listener: (interval: TInterval, propertyDeltas: PropertySet, local: boolean, op: ISequencedDocumentMessage &#124; undefined) =&gt; void): void</a>
      </td>
      <td>
        <code>ALPHA</code>
      </td>
      <td>
        This event is invoked whenever an interval's properties have changed. <code>interval</code> reflects the state of the updated properties. <code>propertyDeltas</code> is a map-like whose keys contain all values that were changed, and whose values contain all previous values of the property set. This object can be used directly in a call to <code>changeProperties</code> to revert the property change if desired. <code>local</code> reflects whether the change originated locally. <code>op</code> is defined if and only if the server has acked this change.
      </td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

## Call Signature Details

### (event: "changeInterval", listener: (interval: TInterval, previousInterval: TInterval, local: boolean, op: ISequencedDocumentMessage \| undefined, slide: boolean) =&gt; void): void (ALPHA) {#_call_-callsignature}

This event is invoked whenever the endpoints of an interval may have changed. This can happen on: - local endpoint modification - ack of a remote endpoint modification - position change due to segment sliding (slides due to mergeTree segment deletion will always appear local) The `interval` argument reflects the new values. `previousInterval` contains transient `ReferencePosition`s at the same location as the interval's original endpoints. These references should be used for position information only. `local` reflects whether the change originated locally. `op` is defined if and only if the server has acked this change. `slide` is true if the change is due to sliding on removal of position

WARNING: This API is provided as an alpha preview and may change without notice. Use at your own risk.

#### Signature {#_call_-signature}

```typescript
(event: "changeInterval", listener: (interval: TInterval, previousInterval: TInterval, local: boolean, op: ISequencedDocumentMessage | undefined, slide: boolean) => void): void;
```

### (event: "addInterval" \| "deleteInterval", listener: (interval: TInterval, local: boolean, op: ISequencedDocumentMessage \| undefined) =&gt; void): void (ALPHA) {#_call__1-callsignature}

This event is invoked whenever an interval is added or removed from the collection. `local` reflects whether the change originated locally. `op` is defined if and only if the server has acked this change.

WARNING: This API is provided as an alpha preview and may change without notice. Use at your own risk.

#### Signature {#_call__1-signature}

```typescript
(event: "addInterval" | "deleteInterval", listener: (interval: TInterval, local: boolean, op: ISequencedDocumentMessage | undefined) => void): void;
```

### (event: "propertyChanged", listener: (interval: TInterval, propertyDeltas: PropertySet, local: boolean, op: ISequencedDocumentMessage \| undefined) =&gt; void): void (ALPHA) {#_call__2-callsignature}

This event is invoked whenever an interval's properties have changed. `interval` reflects the state of the updated properties. `propertyDeltas` is a map-like whose keys contain all values that were changed, and whose values contain all previous values of the property set. This object can be used directly in a call to `changeProperties` to revert the property change if desired. `local` reflects whether the change originated locally. `op` is defined if and only if the server has acked this change.

WARNING: This API is provided as an alpha preview and may change without notice. Use at your own risk.

#### Signature {#_call__2-signature}

```typescript
(event: "propertyChanged", listener: (interval: TInterval, propertyDeltas: PropertySet, local: boolean, op: ISequencedDocumentMessage | undefined) => void): void;
```
