{
  "title": "IntervalType",
  "kind": "Enum",
  "members": {
    "EnumMember": {
      "Simple": "/docs/apis/sequence/intervaltype-enum#simple-enummember",
      "SlideOnRemove": "/docs/apis/sequence/intervaltype-enum#slideonremove-enummember"
    }
  },
  "package": "@fluidframework/sequence",
  "unscopedPackageName": "sequence"
}

[//]: # (Do not edit this file. It is automatically generated by @fluidtools/api-markdown-documenter.)

WARNING: This API is provided as an alpha preview and may change without notice. Use at your own risk.

## Signature {#intervaltype-signature}

```typescript
export declare enum IntervalType
```

## Flags

<table class="table table-striped table-hover">
  <thead>
    <tr>
      <th>
        Flag
      </th>
      <th>
        Alerts
      </th>
      <th>
        Description
      </th>
    </tr>
  </thead>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td>
        <a href='/docs/apis/sequence/intervaltype-enum#simple-enummember'>Simple</a>
      </td>
      <td>
        <code>ALPHA</code>
      </td>
      <td>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>
        <a href='/docs/apis/sequence/intervaltype-enum#slideonremove-enummember'>SlideOnRemove</a>
      </td>
      <td>
        <code>ALPHA</code>
      </td>
      <td>
        SlideOnRemove indicates that the ends of the interval will slide if the segment they reference is removed and acked. See <code>packages\dds\merge-tree\docs\REFERENCEPOSITIONS.md</code> for details SlideOnRemove is the default interval behavior and does not need to be specified.
      </td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

### Simple (ALPHA) {#simple-enummember}

WARNING: This API is provided as an alpha preview and may change without notice. Use at your own risk.

#### Signature {#simple-signature}

```typescript
Simple = 0
```

### SlideOnRemove (ALPHA) {#slideonremove-enummember}

SlideOnRemove indicates that the ends of the interval will slide if the segment they reference is removed and acked. See `packages\dds\merge-tree\docs\REFERENCEPOSITIONS.md` for details SlideOnRemove is the default interval behavior and does not need to be specified.

WARNING: This API is provided as an alpha preview and may change without notice. Use at your own risk.

#### Signature {#slideonremove-signature}

```typescript
SlideOnRemove = 2
```
