{
  "title": "ISequenceDeltaRange Interface",
  "summary": "A range that has changed corresponding to a segment modification.",
  "kind": "Interface",
  "members": {
    "PropertySignature": {
      "operation": "/docs/apis/sequence/isequencedeltarange-interface#operation-propertysignature",
      "position": "/docs/apis/sequence/isequencedeltarange-interface#position-propertysignature",
      "propertyDeltas": "/docs/apis/sequence/isequencedeltarange-interface#propertydeltas-propertysignature",
      "segment": "/docs/apis/sequence/isequencedeltarange-interface#segment-propertysignature"
    }
  },
  "package": "@fluidframework/sequence",
  "unscopedPackageName": "sequence"
}

[//]: # (Do not edit this file. It is automatically generated by @fluidtools/api-markdown-documenter.)

A range that has changed corresponding to a segment modification.

WARNING: This API is provided as an alpha preview and may change without notice. Use at your own risk.

## Signature {#isequencedeltarange-signature}

```typescript
export interface ISequenceDeltaRange<TOperation extends MergeTreeDeltaOperationTypes = MergeTreeDeltaOperationTypes>
```

### Type Parameters

<table class="table table-striped table-hover">
  <thead>
    <tr>
      <th>
        Parameter
      </th>
      <th>
        Modifiers
      </th>
      <th>
        Description
      </th>
    </tr>
  </thead>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td>
        TOperation
      </td>
      <td>
        optional
      </td>
      <td>
      </td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

## Properties

<table class="table table-striped table-hover">
  <thead>
    <tr>
      <th>
        Property
      </th>
      <th>
        Alerts
      </th>
      <th>
        Type
      </th>
      <th>
        Description
      </th>
    </tr>
  </thead>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td>
        <a href='/docs/apis/sequence/isequencedeltarange-interface#operation-propertysignature'>operation</a>
      </td>
      <td>
        <code>ALPHA</code>
      </td>
      <td>
        <span>TOperation</span>
      </td>
      <td>
        The type of operation that changed this range.
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>
        <a href='/docs/apis/sequence/isequencedeltarange-interface#position-propertysignature'>position</a>
      </td>
      <td>
        <code>ALPHA</code>
      </td>
      <td>
        <span>number</span>
      </td>
      <td>
        The index of the start of the range.
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>
        <a href='/docs/apis/sequence/isequencedeltarange-interface#propertydeltas-propertysignature'>propertyDeltas</a>
      </td>
      <td>
        <code>ALPHA</code>
      </td>
      <td>
        <span><a href='/docs/apis/merge-tree#propertyset-typealias'>PropertySet</a></span>
      </td>
      <td>
        Deltas object which contains all modified properties with their previous values. Since <code>undefined</code> doesn't survive a round-trip through JSON serialization, the old value being absent is instead encoded with <code>null</code>.
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>
        <a href='/docs/apis/sequence/isequencedeltarange-interface#segment-propertysignature'>segment</a>
      </td>
      <td>
        <code>ALPHA</code>
      </td>
      <td>
        <span><a href='/docs/apis/merge-tree/isegment-interface'>ISegment</a></span>
      </td>
      <td>
        The segment that corresponds to the range.
      </td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

## Property Details

### operation (ALPHA) {#operation-propertysignature}

The type of operation that changed this range.

WARNING: This API is provided as an alpha preview and may change without notice. Use at your own risk.

#### Signature {#operation-signature}

```typescript
operation: TOperation;
```

#### Remarks {#operation-remarks}

Consuming code should typically compare this to the enum values defined in `MergeTreeDeltaOperationTypes`.

### position (ALPHA) {#position-propertysignature}

The index of the start of the range.

WARNING: This API is provided as an alpha preview and may change without notice. Use at your own risk.

#### Signature {#position-signature}

```typescript
position: number;
```

### propertyDeltas (ALPHA) {#propertydeltas-propertysignature}

Deltas object which contains all modified properties with their previous values. Since `undefined` doesn't survive a round-trip through JSON serialization, the old value being absent is instead encoded with `null`.

WARNING: This API is provided as an alpha preview and may change without notice. Use at your own risk.

#### Signature {#propertydeltas-signature}

```typescript
propertyDeltas: PropertySet;
```

#### Remarks {#propertydeltas-remarks}

This object is motivated by undo/redo scenarios, and provides a convenient "inverse op" to apply to undo a property change.

#### Example {#propertydeltas-example}

If a segment initially had properties `{ foo: "1", bar: 2 }` and it was annotated with `{ foo: 3, baz: 5 }`, the corresponding event would have a `propertyDeltas` of `{ foo: "1", baz: null }`.

### segment (ALPHA) {#segment-propertysignature}

The segment that corresponds to the range.

WARNING: This API is provided as an alpha preview and may change without notice. Use at your own risk.

#### Signature {#segment-signature}

```typescript
segment: ISegment;
```
