{
  "title": "DetachedAttributionKey Interface",
  "summary": "AttributionKey associated with content that was inserted while the container was in a detached state.",
  "kind": "Interface",
  "members": {
    "PropertySignature": {
      "id": "/docs/apis/runtime-definitions/detachedattributionkey-interface#id-propertysignature",
      "type": "/docs/apis/runtime-definitions/detachedattributionkey-interface#type-propertysignature"
    }
  },
  "package": "@fluidframework/runtime-definitions",
  "unscopedPackageName": "runtime-definitions"
}

[//]: # (Do not edit this file. It is automatically generated by @fluidtools/api-markdown-documenter.)

AttributionKey associated with content that was inserted while the container was in a detached state.

WARNING: This API is provided as an alpha preview and may change without notice. Use at your own risk.

## Signature {#detachedattributionkey-signature}

```typescript
export interface DetachedAttributionKey
```

## Remarks {#detachedattributionkey-remarks}

Retrieving an _AttributionInfo_ from content associated with detached attribution keys is currently unsupported, as applications can effectively modify content anonymously while detached. The runtime has no mechanism for reliably obtaining the user. It would be reasonable to start supporting this functionality if the host provided additional context to their attributor or attach calls.

## Properties

<table class="table table-striped table-hover">
  <thead>
    <tr>
      <th>
        Property
      </th>
      <th>
        Alerts
      </th>
      <th>
        Type
      </th>
      <th>
        Description
      </th>
    </tr>
  </thead>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td>
        <a href='/docs/apis/runtime-definitions/detachedattributionkey-interface#id-propertysignature'>id</a>
      </td>
      <td>
        <code>ALPHA</code>
      </td>
      <td>
        <span>0</span>
      </td>
      <td>
        Arbitrary discriminator associated with content inserted while detached.
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>
        <a href='/docs/apis/runtime-definitions/detachedattributionkey-interface#type-propertysignature'>type</a>
      </td>
      <td>
        <code>ALPHA</code>
      </td>
      <td>
        <span>&quot;detached&quot;</span>
      </td>
      <td>
      </td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

## Property Details

### id (ALPHA) {#id-propertysignature}

Arbitrary discriminator associated with content inserted while detached.

WARNING: This API is provided as an alpha preview and may change without notice. Use at your own risk.

#### Signature {#id-signature}

```typescript
id: 0;
```

#### Remarks {#id-remarks}

For now, the runtime assumes all content created while detached is associated with the same user/timestamp. We could weaken this assumption in the future with further API support and allow arbitrary strings or numbers as part of this key.

### type (ALPHA) {#type-propertysignature}

WARNING: This API is provided as an alpha preview and may change without notice. Use at your own risk.

#### Signature {#type-signature}

```typescript
type: "detached";
```
