{
  "title": "FlushMode",
  "kind": "Enum",
  "members": {
    "EnumMember": {
      "Immediate": "/docs/apis/runtime-definitions/flushmode-enum#immediate-enummember",
      "TurnBased": "/docs/apis/runtime-definitions/flushmode-enum#turnbased-enummember"
    }
  },
  "package": "@fluidframework/runtime-definitions",
  "unscopedPackageName": "runtime-definitions"
}

[//]: # (Do not edit this file. It is automatically generated by @fluidtools/api-markdown-documenter.)

Runtime flush mode handling

WARNING: This API is provided as an alpha preview and may change without notice. Use at your own risk.

## Signature {#flushmode-signature}

```typescript
export declare enum FlushMode
```

## Flags

<table class="table table-striped table-hover">
  <thead>
    <tr>
      <th>
        Flag
      </th>
      <th>
        Alerts
      </th>
      <th>
        Description
      </th>
    </tr>
  </thead>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td>
        <a href='/docs/apis/runtime-definitions/flushmode-enum#immediate-enummember'>Immediate</a>
      </td>
      <td>
        <code>ALPHA</code>
      </td>
      <td>
        In Immediate flush mode the runtime will immediately send all operations to the driver layer.
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>
        <a href='/docs/apis/runtime-definitions/flushmode-enum#turnbased-enummember'>TurnBased</a>
      </td>
      <td>
        <code>ALPHA</code>
      </td>
      <td>
        When in TurnBased flush mode the runtime will buffer operations in the current turn and send them as a single batch at the end of the turn. The flush call on the runtime can be used to force send the current batch.
      </td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

### Immediate (ALPHA) {#immediate-enummember}

In Immediate flush mode the runtime will immediately send all operations to the driver layer.

WARNING: This API is provided as an alpha preview and may change without notice. Use at your own risk.

#### Signature {#immediate-signature}

```typescript
Immediate = 0
```

### TurnBased (ALPHA) {#turnbased-enummember}

When in TurnBased flush mode the runtime will buffer operations in the current turn and send them as a single batch at the end of the turn. The flush call on the runtime can be used to force send the current batch.

WARNING: This API is provided as an alpha preview and may change without notice. Use at your own risk.

#### Signature {#turnbased-signature}

```typescript
TurnBased = 1
```
