{
  "title": "IAttachMessage Interface",
  "summary": "Message send by client attaching local data structure. Contains snapshot of data structure which is the current state of this data structure.",
  "kind": "Interface",
  "members": {
    "PropertySignature": {
      "id": "/docs/apis/runtime-definitions/iattachmessage-interface#id-propertysignature",
      "snapshot": "/docs/apis/runtime-definitions/iattachmessage-interface#snapshot-propertysignature",
      "type": "/docs/apis/runtime-definitions/iattachmessage-interface#type-propertysignature"
    }
  },
  "package": "@fluidframework/runtime-definitions",
  "unscopedPackageName": "runtime-definitions"
}

[//]: # (Do not edit this file. It is automatically generated by @fluidtools/api-markdown-documenter.)

Message send by client attaching local data structure. Contains snapshot of data structure which is the current state of this data structure.

WARNING: This API is provided as an alpha preview and may change without notice. Use at your own risk.

## Signature {#iattachmessage-signature}

```typescript
export interface IAttachMessage
```

## Properties

<table class="table table-striped table-hover">
  <thead>
    <tr>
      <th>
        Property
      </th>
      <th>
        Alerts
      </th>
      <th>
        Type
      </th>
      <th>
        Description
      </th>
    </tr>
  </thead>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td>
        <a href='/docs/apis/runtime-definitions/iattachmessage-interface#id-propertysignature'>id</a>
      </td>
      <td>
        <code>ALPHA</code>
      </td>
      <td>
        <span>string</span>
      </td>
      <td>
        The identifier for the object
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>
        <a href='/docs/apis/runtime-definitions/iattachmessage-interface#snapshot-propertysignature'>snapshot</a>
      </td>
      <td>
        <code>ALPHA</code>
      </td>
      <td>
        <span>ITree</span>
      </td>
      <td>
        Initial snapshot of the document (contains ownership)
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>
        <a href='/docs/apis/runtime-definitions/iattachmessage-interface#type-propertysignature'>type</a>
      </td>
      <td>
        <code>ALPHA</code>
      </td>
      <td>
        <span>string</span>
      </td>
      <td>
        The type of object
      </td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

## Property Details

### id (ALPHA) {#id-propertysignature}

The identifier for the object

WARNING: This API is provided as an alpha preview and may change without notice. Use at your own risk.

#### Signature {#id-signature}

```typescript
id: string;
```

### snapshot (ALPHA) {#snapshot-propertysignature}

Initial snapshot of the document (contains ownership)

WARNING: This API is provided as an alpha preview and may change without notice. Use at your own risk.

#### Signature {#snapshot-signature}

```typescript
snapshot: ITree;
```

### type (ALPHA) {#type-propertysignature}

The type of object

WARNING: This API is provided as an alpha preview and may change without notice. Use at your own risk.

#### Signature {#type-signature}

```typescript
type: string;
```
