{
  "title": "IExperimentalIncrementalSummaryContext Interface",
  "summary": "- Can be deleted/changed at any time Contains the necessary information to allow DDSes to do incremental summaries",
  "kind": "Interface",
  "members": {
    "PropertySignature": {
      "latestSummarySequenceNumber": "/docs/apis/runtime-definitions/iexperimentalincrementalsummarycontext-interface#latestsummarysequencenumber-propertysignature",
      "summaryPath": "/docs/apis/runtime-definitions/iexperimentalincrementalsummarycontext-interface#summarypath-propertysignature",
      "summarySequenceNumber": "/docs/apis/runtime-definitions/iexperimentalincrementalsummarycontext-interface#summarysequencenumber-propertysignature"
    }
  },
  "package": "@fluidframework/runtime-definitions",
  "unscopedPackageName": "runtime-definitions"
}

[//]: # (Do not edit this file. It is automatically generated by @fluidtools/api-markdown-documenter.)

- Can be deleted/changed at any time Contains the necessary information to allow DDSes to do incremental summaries

## Signature {#iexperimentalincrementalsummarycontext-signature}

```typescript
export interface IExperimentalIncrementalSummaryContext
```

## Properties

<table class="table table-striped table-hover">
  <thead>
    <tr>
      <th>
        Property
      </th>
      <th>
        Type
      </th>
      <th>
        Description
      </th>
    </tr>
  </thead>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td>
        <a href='/docs/apis/runtime-definitions/iexperimentalincrementalsummarycontext-interface#latestsummarysequencenumber-propertysignature'>latestSummarySequenceNumber</a>
      </td>
      <td>
        <span>number</span>
      </td>
      <td>
        The sequence number of the most recent summary that was acknowledged by the server.
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>
        <a href='/docs/apis/runtime-definitions/iexperimentalincrementalsummarycontext-interface#summarypath-propertysignature'>summaryPath</a>
      </td>
      <td>
        <span>string</span>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>
          The path to the runtime/datastore/dds that is used to generate summary handles Note: Summary handles are nodes of the summary tree that point to previous parts of the last successful summary instead of being a blob or tree node
        </p>
        <p>
          This path contains the id of the data store and dds which should not be leaked to layers below them. Ideally, a layer should not know its own id. This is important for channel unification work and there has been a lot of work to remove these kinds of leakages. Some still exist, which have to be fixed but we should not be adding more dependencies.
        </p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>
        <a href='/docs/apis/runtime-definitions/iexperimentalincrementalsummarycontext-interface#summarysequencenumber-propertysignature'>summarySequenceNumber</a>
      </td>
      <td>
        <span>number</span>
      </td>
      <td>
        The sequence number of the summary generated that will be sent to the server.
      </td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

## Property Details

### latestSummarySequenceNumber {#latestsummarysequencenumber-propertysignature}

The sequence number of the most recent summary that was acknowledged by the server.

#### Signature {#latestsummarysequencenumber-signature}

```typescript
latestSummarySequenceNumber: number;
```

### summaryPath {#summarypath-propertysignature}

The path to the runtime/datastore/dds that is used to generate summary handles Note: Summary handles are nodes of the summary tree that point to previous parts of the last successful summary instead of being a blob or tree node

This path contains the id of the data store and dds which should not be leaked to layers below them. Ideally, a layer should not know its own id. This is important for channel unification work and there has been a lot of work to remove these kinds of leakages. Some still exist, which have to be fixed but we should not be adding more dependencies.

#### Signature {#summarypath-signature}

```typescript
summaryPath: string;
```

### summarySequenceNumber {#summarysequencenumber-propertysignature}

The sequence number of the summary generated that will be sent to the server.

#### Signature {#summarysequencenumber-signature}

```typescript
summarySequenceNumber: number;
```
