{
  "title": "ISummaryTreeWithStats Interface",
  "summary": "Represents the summary tree for a node along with the statistics for that tree. For example, for a given data store, it contains the data for data store along with a subtree for each of its DDS. Any component that implements IChannelContext, IFluidDataStoreChannel or extends SharedObject will be taking part of the summarization process.",
  "kind": "Interface",
  "members": {
    "PropertySignature": {
      "stats": "/docs/apis/runtime-definitions/isummarytreewithstats-interface#stats-propertysignature",
      "summary": "/docs/apis/runtime-definitions/isummarytreewithstats-interface#summary-propertysignature"
    }
  },
  "package": "@fluidframework/runtime-definitions",
  "unscopedPackageName": "runtime-definitions"
}

[//]: # (Do not edit this file. It is automatically generated by @fluidtools/api-markdown-documenter.)

Represents the summary tree for a node along with the statistics for that tree. For example, for a given data store, it contains the data for data store along with a subtree for each of its DDS. Any component that implements IChannelContext, IFluidDataStoreChannel or extends SharedObject will be taking part of the summarization process.

## Signature {#isummarytreewithstats-signature}

```typescript
export interface ISummaryTreeWithStats
```

## Properties

<table class="table table-striped table-hover">
  <thead>
    <tr>
      <th>
        Property
      </th>
      <th>
        Type
      </th>
      <th>
        Description
      </th>
    </tr>
  </thead>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td>
        <a href='/docs/apis/runtime-definitions/isummarytreewithstats-interface#stats-propertysignature'>stats</a>
      </td>
      <td>
        <span><a href='/docs/apis/runtime-definitions/isummarystats-interface'>ISummaryStats</a></span>
      </td>
      <td>
        Represents an aggregation of node counts and blob sizes associated to the current summary information
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>
        <a href='/docs/apis/runtime-definitions/isummarytreewithstats-interface#summary-propertysignature'>summary</a>
      </td>
      <td>
        <span>ISummaryTree</span>
      </td>
      <td>
        A recursive data structure that will be converted to a snapshot tree and uploaded to the backend.
      </td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

## Property Details

### stats {#stats-propertysignature}

Represents an aggregation of node counts and blob sizes associated to the current summary information

#### Signature {#stats-signature}

```typescript
stats: ISummaryStats;
```

### summary {#summary-propertysignature}

A recursive data structure that will be converted to a snapshot tree and uploaded to the backend.

#### Signature {#summary-signature}

```typescript
summary: ISummaryTree;
```
