{
  "title": "ISummarizerNodeConfig Interface",
  "summary": "",
  "kind": "Interface",
  "members": {
    "PropertySignature": {
      "canReuseHandle": "/docs/apis/runtime-definitions/isummarizernodeconfig-interface#canreusehandle-propertysignature",
      "throwOnFailure": "/docs/apis/runtime-definitions/isummarizernodeconfig-interface#throwonfailure-propertysignature"
    }
  },
  "package": "@fluidframework/runtime-definitions",
  "unscopedPackageName": "runtime-definitions"
}

[//]: # (Do not edit this file. It is automatically generated by @fluidtools/api-markdown-documenter.)

WARNING: This API is provided as an alpha preview and may change without notice. Use at your own risk.

## Signature {#isummarizernodeconfig-signature}

```typescript
export interface ISummarizerNodeConfig
```

## Properties

<table class="table table-striped table-hover">
  <thead>
    <tr>
      <th>
        Property
      </th>
      <th>
        Alerts
      </th>
      <th>
        Modifiers
      </th>
      <th>
        Type
      </th>
      <th>
        Description
      </th>
    </tr>
  </thead>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td>
        <a href='/docs/apis/runtime-definitions/isummarizernodeconfig-interface#canreusehandle-propertysignature'>canReuseHandle</a>
      </td>
      <td>
        <code>ALPHA</code>
      </td>
      <td>
        <code>optional</code>, <code>readonly</code>
      </td>
      <td>
        <span>boolean</span>
      </td>
      <td>
        True to reuse previous handle when unchanged since last acked summary. Defaults to true.
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>
        <a href='/docs/apis/runtime-definitions/isummarizernodeconfig-interface#throwonfailure-propertysignature'>throwOnFailure</a>
      </td>
      <td>
        <code>ALPHA</code>
      </td>
      <td>
        <code>optional</code>, <code>readonly</code>
      </td>
      <td>
        <span>true</span>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>
          True to always stop execution on error during summarize, or false to attempt creating a summary that is a pointer ot the last acked summary plus outstanding ops in case of internal summarize failure. Defaults to false.
        </p>
        <p>
          BUG BUG: Default to true while we investigate problem with differential summaries
        </p>
      </td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

## Property Details

### canReuseHandle (ALPHA) {#canreusehandle-propertysignature}

True to reuse previous handle when unchanged since last acked summary. Defaults to true.

WARNING: This API is provided as an alpha preview and may change without notice. Use at your own risk.

#### Signature {#canreusehandle-signature}

```typescript
readonly canReuseHandle?: boolean;
```

### throwOnFailure (ALPHA) {#throwonfailure-propertysignature}

True to always stop execution on error during summarize, or false to attempt creating a summary that is a pointer ot the last acked summary plus outstanding ops in case of internal summarize failure. Defaults to false.

BUG BUG: Default to true while we investigate problem with differential summaries

WARNING: This API is provided as an alpha preview and may change without notice. Use at your own risk.

#### Signature {#throwonfailure-signature}

```typescript
readonly throwOnFailure?: true;
```
