{
  "title": "OpAttributionKey Interface",
  "summary": "AttributionKey representing a reference to some op in the op stream. Content associated with this key aligns with content modified by that op.",
  "kind": "Interface",
  "members": {
    "PropertySignature": {
      "seq": "/docs/apis/runtime-definitions/opattributionkey-interface#seq-propertysignature",
      "type": "/docs/apis/runtime-definitions/opattributionkey-interface#type-propertysignature"
    }
  },
  "package": "@fluidframework/runtime-definitions",
  "unscopedPackageName": "runtime-definitions"
}

[//]: # (Do not edit this file. It is automatically generated by @fluidtools/api-markdown-documenter.)

AttributionKey representing a reference to some op in the op stream. Content associated with this key aligns with content modified by that op.

WARNING: This API is provided as an alpha preview and may change without notice. Use at your own risk.

## Signature {#opattributionkey-signature}

```typescript
export interface OpAttributionKey
```

## Properties

<table class="table table-striped table-hover">
  <thead>
    <tr>
      <th>
        Property
      </th>
      <th>
        Alerts
      </th>
      <th>
        Type
      </th>
      <th>
        Description
      </th>
    </tr>
  </thead>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td>
        <a href='/docs/apis/runtime-definitions/opattributionkey-interface#seq-propertysignature'>seq</a>
      </td>
      <td>
        <code>ALPHA</code>
      </td>
      <td>
        <span>number</span>
      </td>
      <td>
        The sequenceNumber of the op this attribution key is for.
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>
        <a href='/docs/apis/runtime-definitions/opattributionkey-interface#type-propertysignature'>type</a>
      </td>
      <td>
        <code>ALPHA</code>
      </td>
      <td>
        <span>&quot;op&quot;</span>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>
          The type of attribution this key corresponds to.
        </p>
        <p>
          Keys currently all represent op-based attribution, so have the form <code>{ type: &quot;op&quot;, key: sequenceNumber }</code>. Thus, they can be used with an <code>OpStreamAttributor</code> to recover timestamp/user information.
        </p>
      </td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

## Property Details

### seq (ALPHA) {#seq-propertysignature}

The sequenceNumber of the op this attribution key is for.

WARNING: This API is provided as an alpha preview and may change without notice. Use at your own risk.

#### Signature {#seq-signature}

```typescript
seq: number;
```

### type (ALPHA) {#type-propertysignature}

The type of attribution this key corresponds to.

Keys currently all represent op-based attribution, so have the form `{ type: "op", key: sequenceNumber }`. Thus, they can be used with an `OpStreamAttributor` to recover timestamp/user information.

WARNING: This API is provided as an alpha preview and may change without notice. Use at your own risk.

#### Signature {#type-signature}

```typescript
type: "op";
```
