examples/data-objects/clicker/README.md, before:

# @fluid-example/clicker

**Clicker** is a Fluid object that displays a number with a button. Pressing the button
increments the counter. This is a basic example using the interface model and stock
classes.

**Clicker** also demonstrates how use the built in taskManager to setup a simple agent.

There is another experimental implementation of Clicker using a WiP Fluid React Component in components/experimental/clicker-react. While it uses a state update model instead of an event-listening model that some React developers may find more familiar, the code is still being developed and may contain bugs.

<!-- AUTO-GENERATED-CONTENT:START (EXAMPLE_APP_README_HEADER:usesTinylicious=FALSE) -->

<!-- prettier-ignore-start -->
<!-- NOTE: This section is automatically generated using @fluid-tools/markdown-magic. Do not update these generated contents directly. -->

## Getting Started

You can run this example using the following steps:

1. Enable [corepack](https://nodejs.org/docs/latest-v16.x/api/corepack.html) by running `corepack enable`.
1. Run `pnpm install` and `pnpm run build:fast --nolint` from the `FluidFramework` root directory.
    - For an even faster build, you can add the package name to the build command, like this:
      `pnpm run build:fast --nolint @fluid-example/clicker`
1. Run `pnpm start` from this directory and open <http://localhost:8080> in a web browser to see the app running.

<!-- prettier-ignore-end -->

<!-- AUTO-GENERATED-CONTENT:END -->

## Testing

```bash
    npm run test:jest
```

For in browser testing update `./jest-puppeteer.config.js` to:

```javascript
  launch: {
    dumpio: true, // output browser console to cmd line
    slowMo: 500,
    headless: false,
  },
```

## Data model

Badge uses the following distributed data structures:

-   SharedDirectory - root

<!-- AUTO-GENERATED-CONTENT:START (README_FOOTER) -->

<!-- prettier-ignore-start -->
<!-- NOTE: This section is automatically generated using @fluid-tools/markdown-magic. Do not update these generated contents directly. -->

## Contribution Guidelines

There are many ways to [contribute](https://github.com/microsoft/FluidFramework/blob/main/CONTRIBUTING.md) to Fluid.

-   Participate in Q&A in our [GitHub Discussions](https://github.com/microsoft/FluidFramework/discussions).
-   [Submit bugs](https://github.com/microsoft/FluidFramework/issues) and help us verify fixes as they are checked in.
-   Review the [source code changes](https://github.com/microsoft/FluidFramework/pulls).
-   [Contribute bug fixes](https://github.com/microsoft/FluidFramework/blob/main/CONTRIBUTING.md).

Detailed instructions for working in the repo can be found in the [Wiki](https://github.com/microsoft/FluidFramework/wiki).

This project has adopted the [Microsoft Open Source Code of Conduct](https://opensource.microsoft.com/codeofconduct/).
For more information see the [Code of Conduct FAQ](https://opensource.microsoft.com/codeofconduct/faq/) or contact [opencode@microsoft.com](mailto:opencode@microsoft.com) with any additional questions or comments.

This project may contain Microsoft trademarks or logos for Microsoft projects, products, or services.
Use of these trademarks or logos must follow Microsoft’s [Trademark & Brand Guidelines](https://www.microsoft.com/trademarks).
Use of Microsoft trademarks or logos in modified versions of this project must not cause confusion or imply Microsoft sponsorship.

## Help

Not finding what you're looking for in this README? Check out [fluidframework.com](https://fluidframework.com/docs/).

Still not finding what you're looking for? Please [file an issue](https://github.com/microsoft/FluidFramework/wiki/Submitting-Bugs-and-Feature-Requests).

Thank you!

## Trademark

This project may contain Microsoft trademarks or logos for Microsoft projects, products, or services.

Use of these trademarks or logos must follow Microsoft's [Trademark & Brand Guidelines](https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/legal/intellectualproperty/trademarks/usage/general).

Use of Microsoft trademarks or logos in modified versions of this project must not cause confusion or imply Microsoft sponsorship.

<!-- prettier-ignore-end -->

<!-- AUTO-GENERATED-CONTENT:END -->

Commit message:

Add instructions to example apps on how to connect to SharePoint

examples/data-objects/clicker/README.md, after:

# @fluid-example/clicker

**Clicker** is a Fluid object that displays a number with a button. Pressing the button
increments the counter. This is a basic example using the interface model and stock
classes.

**Clicker** also demonstrates how use the built in taskManager to setup a simple agent.

There is another experimental implementation of Clicker using a WiP Fluid React Component in components/experimental/clicker-react. While it uses a state update model instead of an event-listening model that some React developers may find more familiar, the code is still being developed and may contain bugs.

<!-- AUTO-GENERATED-CONTENT:START (EXAMPLE_APP_README_HEADER:usesTinylicious=FALSE) -->

<!-- prettier-ignore-start -->
<!-- NOTE: This section is automatically generated using @fluid-tools/markdown-magic. Do not update these generated contents directly. -->

## Getting Started

You can run this example using the following steps:

1. Enable [corepack](https://nodejs.org/docs/latest-v16.x/api/corepack.html) by running `corepack enable`.
1. Run `pnpm install` and `pnpm run build:fast --nolint` from the `FluidFramework` root directory.
    - For an even faster build, you can add the package name to the build command, like this:
      `pnpm run build:fast --nolint @fluid-example/clicker`
1. Run `pnpm start` from this directory and open <http://localhost:8080> in a web browser to see the app running.
1. If you want to run the app against SharePoint, follow the instructions in [webpack-fluid-loader](https://github.com/microsoft/FluidFramework/blob/main/examples/utils/webpack-fluid-loader/README.md#sharepoint) to get auth credentials. Then run `pnpm start:spo` or `pnpm start:spo-df` and open <http://localhost:8080> like above.

<!-- prettier-ignore-end -->

<!-- AUTO-GENERATED-CONTENT:END -->

## Testing

```bash
    npm run test:jest
```

For in browser testing update `./jest-puppeteer.config.js` to:

```javascript
  launch: {
    dumpio: true, // output browser console to cmd line
    slowMo: 500,
    headless: false,
  },
```

## Data model

Badge uses the following distributed data structures:

-   SharedDirectory - root

<!-- AUTO-GENERATED-CONTENT:START (README_FOOTER) -->

<!-- prettier-ignore-start -->
<!-- NOTE: This section is automatically generated using @fluid-tools/markdown-magic. Do not update these generated contents directly. -->

## Contribution Guidelines

There are many ways to [contribute](https://github.com/microsoft/FluidFramework/blob/main/CONTRIBUTING.md) to Fluid.

-   Participate in Q&A in our [GitHub Discussions](https://github.com/microsoft/FluidFramework/discussions).
-   [Submit bugs](https://github.com/microsoft/FluidFramework/issues) and help us verify fixes as they are checked in.
-   Review the [source code changes](https://github.com/microsoft/FluidFramework/pulls).
-   [Contribute bug fixes](https://github.com/microsoft/FluidFramework/blob/main/CONTRIBUTING.md).

Detailed instructions for working in the repo can be found in the [Wiki](https://github.com/microsoft/FluidFramework/wiki).

This project has adopted the [Microsoft Open Source Code of Conduct](https://opensource.microsoft.com/codeofconduct/).
For more information see the [Code of Conduct FAQ](https://opensource.microsoft.com/codeofconduct/faq/) or contact [opencode@microsoft.com](mailto:opencode@microsoft.com) with any additional questions or comments.

This project may contain Microsoft trademarks or logos for Microsoft projects, products, or services.
Use of these trademarks or logos must follow Microsoft’s [Trademark & Brand Guidelines](https://www.microsoft.com/trademarks).
Use of Microsoft trademarks or logos in modified versions of this project must not cause confusion or imply Microsoft sponsorship.

## Help

Not finding what you're looking for in this README? Check out [fluidframework.com](https://fluidframework.com/docs/).

Still not finding what you're looking for? Please [file an issue](https://github.com/microsoft/FluidFramework/wiki/Submitting-Bugs-and-Feature-Requests).

Thank you!

## Trademark

This project may contain Microsoft trademarks or logos for Microsoft projects, products, or services.

Use of these trademarks or logos must follow Microsoft's [Trademark & Brand Guidelines](https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/legal/intellectualproperty/trademarks/usage/general).

Use of Microsoft trademarks or logos in modified versions of this project must not cause confusion or imply Microsoft sponsorship.

<!-- prettier-ignore-end -->

<!-- AUTO-GENERATED-CONTENT:END -->
