{
  "title": "FluidCacheConfig Interface",
  "summary": "",
  "kind": "Interface",
  "members": {
    "PropertySignature": {
      "closeDbAfterMs": "/docs/apis/driver-web-cache/fluidcacheconfig-interface#closedbafterms-propertysignature",
      "logger": "/docs/apis/driver-web-cache/fluidcacheconfig-interface#logger-propertysignature",
      "maxCacheItemAge": "/docs/apis/driver-web-cache/fluidcacheconfig-interface#maxcacheitemage-propertysignature",
      "partitionKey": "/docs/apis/driver-web-cache/fluidcacheconfig-interface#partitionkey-propertysignature"
    }
  },
  "package": "@fluidframework/driver-web-cache",
  "unscopedPackageName": "driver-web-cache"
}

[//]: # (Do not edit this file. It is automatically generated by @fluidtools/api-markdown-documenter.)

WARNING: This API is provided as an alpha preview and may change without notice. Use at your own risk.

## Signature {#fluidcacheconfig-signature}

```typescript
export interface FluidCacheConfig
```

## Properties

<table class="table table-striped table-hover">
  <thead>
    <tr>
      <th>
        Property
      </th>
      <th>
        Alerts
      </th>
      <th>
        Modifiers
      </th>
      <th>
        Type
      </th>
      <th>
        Description
      </th>
    </tr>
  </thead>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td>
        <a href='/docs/apis/driver-web-cache/fluidcacheconfig-interface#closedbafterms-propertysignature'>closeDbAfterMs</a>
      </td>
      <td>
        <code>ALPHA</code>
      </td>
      <td>
        <code>optional</code>
      </td>
      <td>
        <span>number</span>
      </td>
      <td>
        Each time db is opened, it will remain open for this much time. To improve perf, if this property is set as any number greater than 0, then db will not be closed immediately after usage. This value is in milliseconds.
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>
        <a href='/docs/apis/driver-web-cache/fluidcacheconfig-interface#logger-propertysignature'>logger</a>
      </td>
      <td>
        <code>ALPHA</code>
      </td>
      <td>
        <code>optional</code>
      </td>
      <td>
        <span><a href='/docs/apis/core-interfaces/itelemetrybaselogger-interface'>ITelemetryBaseLogger</a></span>
      </td>
      <td>
        A logger that can be used to get insight into cache performance and errors
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>
        <a href='/docs/apis/driver-web-cache/fluidcacheconfig-interface#maxcacheitemage-propertysignature'>maxCacheItemAge</a>
      </td>
      <td>
        <code>ALPHA</code>
      </td>
      <td>
      </td>
      <td>
        <span>number</span>
      </td>
      <td>
        A value in milliseconds that determines the maximum age of a cache entry to return. If an entry exists in the cache, but is older than this value, the cached value will not be returned.
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>
        <a href='/docs/apis/driver-web-cache/fluidcacheconfig-interface#partitionkey-propertysignature'>partitionKey</a>
      </td>
      <td>
        <code>ALPHA</code>
      </td>
      <td>
      </td>
      <td>
        <span>string &#124; null</span>
      </td>
      <td>
        A string to specify what partition of the cache you wish to use (e.g. a user id). Null can be used to explicity indicate no partitioning, and has been chosen vs undefined so that it is clear this is an intentional choice by the caller. A null value should only be used when the host can ensure that the cache is not able to be shared with multiple users.
      </td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

## Property Details

### closeDbAfterMs (ALPHA) {#closedbafterms-propertysignature}

Each time db is opened, it will remain open for this much time. To improve perf, if this property is set as any number greater than 0, then db will not be closed immediately after usage. This value is in milliseconds.

WARNING: This API is provided as an alpha preview and may change without notice. Use at your own risk.

#### Signature {#closedbafterms-signature}

```typescript
closeDbAfterMs?: number;
```

### logger (ALPHA) {#logger-propertysignature}

A logger that can be used to get insight into cache performance and errors

WARNING: This API is provided as an alpha preview and may change without notice. Use at your own risk.

#### Signature {#logger-signature}

```typescript
logger?: ITelemetryBaseLogger;
```

### maxCacheItemAge (ALPHA) {#maxcacheitemage-propertysignature}

A value in milliseconds that determines the maximum age of a cache entry to return. If an entry exists in the cache, but is older than this value, the cached value will not be returned.

WARNING: This API is provided as an alpha preview and may change without notice. Use at your own risk.

#### Signature {#maxcacheitemage-signature}

```typescript
maxCacheItemAge: number;
```

### partitionKey (ALPHA) {#partitionkey-propertysignature}

A string to specify what partition of the cache you wish to use (e.g. a user id). Null can be used to explicity indicate no partitioning, and has been chosen vs undefined so that it is clear this is an intentional choice by the caller. A null value should only be used when the host can ensure that the cache is not able to be shared with multiple users.

WARNING: This API is provided as an alpha preview and may change without notice. Use at your own risk.

#### Signature {#partitionkey-signature}

```typescript
partitionKey: string | null;
```
