README.md, before:

# Fluid

The Fluid Framework is a library for building distributed, real-time collaborative web
applications using JavaScript or TypeScript.

## Getting started using the Fluid Framework

You may be here because you want to...

-   Learn more about the Fluid Framework
-   Build a Fluid object

Documentation and guides can be found at <https://fluidframework.com/>.

Hello World repo can be found at <https://github.com/microsoft/FluidHelloWorld>.

Core Examples repo can be found at <https://github.com/microsoft/FluidExamples>.

Have questions? Engage with other Fluid Framework users and developers in the [Discussions](https://github.com/microsoft/FluidFramework/discussions) section of our GitHub repo.

<!-- AUTO-GENERATED-CONTENT:START (DEPENDENCY_GUIDELINES:includeHeading=TRUE) -->

<!-- prettier-ignore-start -->
<!-- NOTE: This section is automatically generated using @fluid-tools/markdown-magic. Do not update these generated contents directly. -->

## Using Fluid Framework libraries

When taking a dependency on a Fluid Framework library's public APIs, we recommend using a `^` (caret) version range, such as `^1.3.4`.
While Fluid Framework libraries may use different ranges with interdependencies between other Fluid Framework libraries,
library consumers should always prefer `^`.

If using any of Fluid Framework's unstable APIs (for example, its `beta` APIs), we recommend using a more constrained version range, such as `~`.

<!-- prettier-ignore-end -->

<!-- AUTO-GENERATED-CONTENT:END -->

## Code structure

The core code for both the Fluid client packages _and_ the reference ordering service is contained within this repo.

The repo structure is somewhat unique because it contains several [pnpm workspaces](https://pnpm.io/workspaces):
some for individual packages and some for larger collections which we call "release groups".
The workspaces are versioned separately from one another, but internally all packages in a workspaces are versioned together.

These workspaces do not align with package namespaces, and also don't always correspond to a single directory of this repo.

Here's the list of release group workspaces:

-   client (previously known as "Fluid Framework Client" or "core") (Rooted in [./](./). Configured by [./pnpm-workspace.yaml](./pnpm-workspace.yaml))
    -   [./packages](./packages) (Published in the `@fluidframework/` namespace, but some in `@fluid-tools` and unpublished packages in `@fluid-internal/`)
    -   [./experimental](./experimental) (Published in the `@fluid-experimental/` namespace)
    -   [./examples](./examples) (Not published, live in the `@fluid-example/` namespace)
    -   [./azure](./azure). (Published in the `@fluidframework/` namespace)
-   routerlicious (Reference Fluid Ordering Service) (Rooted in [./server/routerlicious](./server/routerlicious). Configured by [./server/routerlicious/pnpm-workspace.yaml](server/routerlicious/pnpm-workspace.yaml))
    -   [Packages](./server/routerlicious/packages) (Published in the `@fluidframework/` namespace)
-   gitrest (Rooted in [./server/gitrest](./server/gitrest). Configured by [./server/gitrest/pnpm-workspace.yaml](./server/gitrest/pnpm-workspace.yaml))
    -   [Packages](./server/gitrest/packages) (Published in the `@fluidframework/` namespace)
-   historian (Rooted in [./server/historian](./server/historian). Configured by [./server/historian/pnpm-workspace.yaml](./server/historian/pnpm-workspace.yaml))
    -   [Packages](./server/historian/packages) (Published in the `@fluidframework/` namespace)
-   build-tools (Rooted in [./build-tools](./build-tools). Configured by [./build-tools/pnpm-workspace.yaml](./build-tools/pnpm-workspace.yaml))
    -   [Packages](./build-tools/packages) (Published in a mix of `@fluidframework/` and `@fluid-tools/` namespaces)

Here's a list of other sets of other packages (each package within these groups is versioned independently,
forming its own release group):

-   "Common" Packages: miscellaneous packages in the [./common](./common) directory and published under the `@fluidframework/` namespace. Most of these (but not all) have "common" in their package name.
    Packages which are used by multiple other groups of packages (such as built tools, linter configs and protocol definitions) live here.
-   "Tools" Packages: miscellaneous packages in the [./tools](./tools) directory and published under a variety of namespaces.
    Logically about the same as "Common", but most of the names include "tools" instead of "common".
-   Auxiliary Microservice Packages (supporting Routerlicious)
    -   [./server](./server) excluding routerlicious, gitrest and historian (Published in the `@fluidframework/` namespace)
-   [./docs](./docs): The code and content for <https://fluidframework.com>.

Dependencies between packages in various layers of the system are enforced via a build step called
[layer-check](./build-tools/packages/build-tools/src/layerCheck). You can view the full list of packages and layers in
[PACKAGES.md](./PACKAGES.md).

-   Note: to update the contents of `PACKAGES.md` for local package changes, run `pnpm layer-check --md .`.

## Setup and Building

Install the required tools:

-   [Git](https://git-scm.com/downloads).
    -   \+ [Git LFS](https://git-lfs.com/)
-   [Node.js](https://nodejs.org/): install the version noted in in the [.nvmrc file](./.nvmrc).
    See [NodeJs Installation](#NodeJs-Installation) for details.

Clone a copy of the repo and change to the repo root directory:

```shell
git clone https://github.com/microsoft/FluidFramework.git
cd FluidFramework
```

Enable NodeJs's [corepack](https://github.com/nodejs/corepack/blob/main/README.md):

```shell
corepack enable
```

Run the following to build the client packages:

```shell
pnpm install
npm run build
```

You can use the experimental worker mode to get faster build time as well: `npm run build:fast`

See also: [Contributing](#Contributing)

## Build in VSCode

To build Fluid Framework within VSCode, open the Fluid Framework repo folder as a work space and use Ctrl-Shift-B
to activate the build task. It is the same as running `npm run build` on the command line.

## NodeJs Installation

We recommend using nvm (for [Windows](https://github.com/coreybutler/nvm-windows) or
[MacOS/Linux](https://github.com/nvm-sh/nvm)) or [fnm](https://github.com/Schniz/fnm) to install Node.js.
This ensures you stay at the correct version while allowing other uses of NodeJS to use the (possibly different) versions they need side-by-side.

Because of a transitive dependency on a native addon module, you'll also need to ensure that you have the prerequisites for `node-gyp`.
Depending on your operating system, you'll have slightly different installation requirements (these are largely copied from `node-gyp`'s [documentation](https://github.com/nodejs/node-gyp#readme)):

### On Windows

The node installer should ask if you want to install "Tools for Native Modules." If you check the box for this nothing further should be needed. Otherwise, you can follow the steps listed [here](https://github.com/Microsoft/nodejs-guidelines/blob/master/windows-environment.md#prerequisites)

### On Unix

1. Python v3.7, v3.8, v3.9, or v3.10
2. `make`
3. A C/C++ toolchain (like [GCC](https://gcc.gnu.org/))

### On MacOS

If you've _upgraded_ your Mac to Catalina or higher, you may need to follow [these](https://github.com/nodejs/node-gyp/blob/main/macOS_Catalina.md) instructions.

1. Python v3.7, v3.8, v3.9, or v3.10
2. `XCode Command Line Tools`, which will install `make`, `clang`, and `clang++`
    - You can install these by running `xcode-select --install` from a command line.

### Other Build Requirements

-   Building [server/Routerlicious](./server/routerlicious/README.md)
    -   Refer to that package's README for additional requirements.
    -   Note that these requirements do not affect all workflows (e.g. the one noted [above](#building)), but will affect workflows that include the packages under `server`.

#### On Windows

-   Ensure that you have enabled running Powershell scripts by setting your environment's [Execution Policy](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/powershell/module/microsoft.powershell.security/set-executionpolicy?view=powershell-7.2).

### Other Build Commands

#### Building our docs

There are a few different areas in which we generate documentation content as a part our overall build.

1. [fluidframework.com]()
    - We build the contents of our public website from the `docs` directory under the root of this repo.
      See its [README](./docs/README.md) for more details.
2. Generated README contents
    - We leverage a local tool ([markdown-magic](./tools/markdown-magic/README.md)) to generate / embed contents in our various package-level READMEs.
      This is done as a part of a full build, but it can also be executed in isolation by running `npm run build:readme` from the repo root.
3. API reports
    - We leverage [API-Extractor](https://api-extractor.com/) to generate summaries of our package APIs.
      This is done as a part of a full build, but it can also be executed in isolation by running `npm run build:api` from the repo root.

## Common Workflows and Patterns

This section contains common workflows and patterns to increase inner dev loop efficiency.

### Build

-   `pnpm install` from the root of the repository to install dependencies. This is necessary for new clones or after pulling changes from the main branch.
-   `pnpm run build:fast` from the root of the repository to perform an incremental build that matches the CI build process. Incremental builds tend to leave extra files laying around, so running a clean is sometimes needed to cleanup ghost tests
-   `pnpm run build:fast -- <path>` to build only a specific part of the repository.
-   `pnpm run build` within a package directory to build that package.
-   `pnpm run build:compile` for cross-package compilation.
-   `pnpm run format` to format the code.

-   `fluid-build --vscode` to output error message to work with default problem matcher in vscode. If `fluid-build` is not installed, please install it with `npm i -g @fluidframework/build-tools`.

#### Multi package setup

-   `fluid-build -t build <NAME_OF_PACKAGES>` to build a multiple space-separated packages along with all their dependencies. If `fluid-build` is not installed, please install it with `npm i -g @fluidframework/build-tools`.

### Debug

-   You can also use the VSCode JS debug terminal, then run the test as normal.

-   Sometimes, uncommitted changes can cause build failures. Committing changes might be necessary to resolve such issues.

### Troubleshooting

-   `pnpm clean` if random build failures, especially with no changes
-   `git clean -xdf` to remove extraneous files if debugging becomes slow or hangs.

## Testing

You can run all of our tests from the root of the repo, or you can run a scoped set of tests by running the `test`
command from the package you're interested in.

Note: Some of the tests depend on test collateral that lives in a submodule here:
<https://github.com/microsoft/FluidFrameworkTestData>. You may choose to fetch that collateral into your local
repository, which is required to run all the tests - otherwise some will be skipped.

First, ensure you have installed [Git LFS](https://git-lfs.com/).
Then, from the repo root:

```shell
git lfs install
git submodule init
git submodule update
```

### Run the tests

Before running the tests, the project has to be built. Depending on what tests you want to run, execute the following command in the package directory or at the root:

```shell
npm run test
```

-   To run a single test within a module, add `.only` to `it` or `describe`. To exclude a test, use `.skip`.
-   You can use `ts-mocha` to quickly run specific test files without needing to make the whole project compile. For more details on test filtering using CLI arguments, refer to the [Mocha documentation](https://mochajs.org/#command-line-usage).

-   Our test setup generally requires building before running the tests.
-   Incremental builds may leave extra files, which can result in ghost tests. To avoid this, consider running a clean build with the following command:

```shell
pnpm clean <package>
```

This removes any leftover files from previous builds, providing a clean testing environment.

### Include code coverage

```shell
npm run test:coverage
```

### Mimic the official CI build

Our CI pipelines run on Linux machines, and the npm scripts all have the `ci` prefix.
To replicate the test steps from the CI pipeline locally, run the following commands for the packages or pnpm workspaces:

| Run      | Non-Windows                | Windows                                             |
| -------- | -------------------------- | --------------------------------------------------- |
| PR       | `npm run ci:test`          | `npm run test:report && npm run test:copyresults`   |
| Official | `npm run ci:test:coverage` | `npm run test:coverage && npm run test:copyresults` |

### Run tests from within VS Code

We've checked in [VS Code configuration](https://github.com/microsoft/FluidFramework/blob/main/.vscode/launch.json)
enabling F5 from a `spec.ts` file to run those tests if you set the debug configuration to "Debug Current Test".

## Run it locally

### Single browser window, two panes

_This will use an in-memory implementation of the Fluid server to sync between the two panes in the browser window._

-   Choose an example under `/examples`
-   Navigate to the example's directory, e.g. `/examples/data-objects/clicker`
-   `npm run start`
-   Browse to <http://localhost:8080> to interact with two copies of the example side-by-side

### Multiple browser instances on the same device

_This will run the local Fluid server implementation we call "Tinylicious", so you can sync between multiple browser
instances._

First, start Tinylicious by running these commands from `/server/routerlicious/`:

```shell
pnpm install
```

Then these commands from `/server/routerlicious/packages/tinylicious`:

```shell
pnpm run build
pnpm run start
```

Then:

-   Navigate to the example of your choice (same as above)
-   `npm run start:tinylicious`
-   Browse to <http://localhost:8080,> copy the full URL you're redirected to, and open in a second window to collaborate

## Tools

### Biome

This repository uses [biome](https://biomejs.dev/formatter/) as its code formatter.
Right now, this is implemented on a per-package basis, with a [shared base configuration](./biome.jsonc).

-   To run `biome` on your code, run `npm run format` from the appropriate package or release group, or run
    `npm run format:changed` from the root of the repo to format only files changed since the main branch.
-   To run `biome` with [fluid-build](./build-tools/packages/build-tools/README.md), you can specify "format" via the
    script argument: `fluid-build -t format` or `npm run build:fast -- -t format`

To ensure our formatting remains consistent, we run a formatting check as a part of each package's `lint` script.

#### VSCode Options

Our [workspace configuration](./.vscode/settings.json) specifies `biome` as the default formatter.
Please do not change this.

It is not configured to do any formatting automatically, however.
This is intentional, to ensure that each developer can work formatting into their workflow as they see fit.
If you wish to configure your setup to format on save/paste/etc., please feel free to update your [user preferences](https://code.visualstudio.com/docs/getstarted/settings) to do so.

Notable setting options:

-   `format on save`
-   `format on paste`

<img src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/54606601/217620203-0cb07007-0aaa-4e57-bc83-973ed4a3f2d7.png" alt="User editor formatting setting options" style="height:400px;"/>

### Git Configuration

Run the following command in each of your repositories to ignore formatting changes in git blame commands: `git config --local blame.ignoreRevsFile .git-blame-ignore-revs`

## Developer notes

### Root dependencies

The root package.json in the repo includes devDependencies on the mocha and jest testing tools. This is to enable easier
test running and debugging using VSCode. However, this makes it possible for projects to have a 'phantom dependency' on
these tools. That is, because mocha/jest is always available in the root, projects in the repo will be able to find
mocha/jest even if they don't express a dependency on those packages in their package.json. We have lint rules in place
to prevent phantom dependencies from being introduced but they're not foolproof.

## Contributing

<!-- AUTO-GENERATED-CONTENT:START (CONTRIBUTION_GUIDELINES:includeHeading=FALSE) -->

<!-- prettier-ignore-start -->
<!-- NOTE: This section is automatically generated using @fluid-tools/markdown-magic. Do not update these generated contents directly. -->

There are many ways to [contribute](https://github.com/microsoft/FluidFramework/blob/main/CONTRIBUTING.md) to Fluid.

-   Participate in Q&A in our [GitHub Discussions](https://github.com/microsoft/FluidFramework/discussions).
-   [Submit bugs](https://github.com/microsoft/FluidFramework/issues) and help us verify fixes as they are checked in.
-   Review the [source code changes](https://github.com/microsoft/FluidFramework/pulls).
-   [Contribute bug fixes](https://github.com/microsoft/FluidFramework/blob/main/CONTRIBUTING.md).

Detailed instructions for working in the repo can be found in the [Wiki](https://github.com/microsoft/FluidFramework/wiki).

This project has adopted the [Microsoft Open Source Code of Conduct](https://opensource.microsoft.com/codeofconduct/).
For more information see the [Code of Conduct FAQ](https://opensource.microsoft.com/codeofconduct/faq/) or contact [opencode@microsoft.com](mailto:opencode@microsoft.com) with any additional questions or comments.

This project may contain Microsoft trademarks or logos for Microsoft projects, products, or services.
Use of these trademarks or logos must follow Microsoft’s [Trademark & Brand Guidelines](https://www.microsoft.com/trademarks).
Use of Microsoft trademarks or logos in modified versions of this project must not cause confusion or imply Microsoft sponsorship.

<!-- prettier-ignore-end -->

<!-- AUTO-GENERATED-CONTENT:END -->

Commit message:

Add note about git maintenance commands

README.md, after:

# Fluid

The Fluid Framework is a library for building distributed, real-time collaborative web
applications using JavaScript or TypeScript.

## Getting started using the Fluid Framework

You may be here because you want to...

-   Learn more about the Fluid Framework
-   Build a Fluid object

Documentation and guides can be found at <https://fluidframework.com/>.

Hello World repo can be found at <https://github.com/microsoft/FluidHelloWorld>.

Core Examples repo can be found at <https://github.com/microsoft/FluidExamples>.

Have questions? Engage with other Fluid Framework users and developers in the [Discussions](https://github.com/microsoft/FluidFramework/discussions) section of our GitHub repo.

<!-- AUTO-GENERATED-CONTENT:START (DEPENDENCY_GUIDELINES:includeHeading=TRUE) -->

<!-- prettier-ignore-start -->
<!-- NOTE: This section is automatically generated using @fluid-tools/markdown-magic. Do not update these generated contents directly. -->

## Using Fluid Framework libraries

When taking a dependency on a Fluid Framework library's public APIs, we recommend using a `^` (caret) version range, such as `^1.3.4`.
While Fluid Framework libraries may use different ranges with interdependencies between other Fluid Framework libraries,
library consumers should always prefer `^`.

If using any of Fluid Framework's unstable APIs (for example, its `beta` APIs), we recommend using a more constrained version range, such as `~`.

<!-- prettier-ignore-end -->

<!-- AUTO-GENERATED-CONTENT:END -->

## Code structure

The core code for both the Fluid client packages _and_ the reference ordering service is contained within this repo.

The repo structure is somewhat unique because it contains several [pnpm workspaces](https://pnpm.io/workspaces):
some for individual packages and some for larger collections which we call "release groups".
The workspaces are versioned separately from one another, but internally all packages in a workspaces are versioned together.

These workspaces do not align with package namespaces, and also don't always correspond to a single directory of this repo.

Here's the list of release group workspaces:

-   client (previously known as "Fluid Framework Client" or "core") (Rooted in [./](./). Configured by [./pnpm-workspace.yaml](./pnpm-workspace.yaml))
    -   [./packages](./packages) (Published in the `@fluidframework/` namespace, but some in `@fluid-tools` and unpublished packages in `@fluid-internal/`)
    -   [./experimental](./experimental) (Published in the `@fluid-experimental/` namespace)
    -   [./examples](./examples) (Not published, live in the `@fluid-example/` namespace)
    -   [./azure](./azure). (Published in the `@fluidframework/` namespace)
-   routerlicious (Reference Fluid Ordering Service) (Rooted in [./server/routerlicious](./server/routerlicious). Configured by [./server/routerlicious/pnpm-workspace.yaml](server/routerlicious/pnpm-workspace.yaml))
    -   [Packages](./server/routerlicious/packages) (Published in the `@fluidframework/` namespace)
-   gitrest (Rooted in [./server/gitrest](./server/gitrest). Configured by [./server/gitrest/pnpm-workspace.yaml](./server/gitrest/pnpm-workspace.yaml))
    -   [Packages](./server/gitrest/packages) (Published in the `@fluidframework/` namespace)
-   historian (Rooted in [./server/historian](./server/historian). Configured by [./server/historian/pnpm-workspace.yaml](./server/historian/pnpm-workspace.yaml))
    -   [Packages](./server/historian/packages) (Published in the `@fluidframework/` namespace)
-   build-tools (Rooted in [./build-tools](./build-tools). Configured by [./build-tools/pnpm-workspace.yaml](./build-tools/pnpm-workspace.yaml))
    -   [Packages](./build-tools/packages) (Published in a mix of `@fluidframework/` and `@fluid-tools/` namespaces)

Here's a list of other sets of other packages (each package within these groups is versioned independently,
forming its own release group):

-   "Common" Packages: miscellaneous packages in the [./common](./common) directory and published under the `@fluidframework/` namespace. Most of these (but not all) have "common" in their package name.
    Packages which are used by multiple other groups of packages (such as built tools, linter configs and protocol definitions) live here.
-   "Tools" Packages: miscellaneous packages in the [./tools](./tools) directory and published under a variety of namespaces.
    Logically about the same as "Common", but most of the names include "tools" instead of "common".
-   Auxiliary Microservice Packages (supporting Routerlicious)
    -   [./server](./server) excluding routerlicious, gitrest and historian (Published in the `@fluidframework/` namespace)
-   [./docs](./docs): The code and content for <https://fluidframework.com>.

Dependencies between packages in various layers of the system are enforced via a build step called
[layer-check](./build-tools/packages/build-tools/src/layerCheck). You can view the full list of packages and layers in
[PACKAGES.md](./PACKAGES.md).

-   Note: to update the contents of `PACKAGES.md` for local package changes, run `pnpm layer-check --md .`.

## Setup and Building

Install the required tools:

-   [Git](https://git-scm.com/downloads).
    -   \+ [Git LFS](https://git-lfs.com/)
-   [Node.js](https://nodejs.org/): install the version noted in in the [.nvmrc file](./.nvmrc).
    See [NodeJs Installation](#NodeJs-Installation) for details.

Clone a copy of the repo and change to the repo root directory:

```shell
git clone https://github.com/microsoft/FluidFramework.git
cd FluidFramework
```

Enable NodeJs's [corepack](https://github.com/nodejs/corepack/blob/main/README.md):

```shell
corepack enable
```

Run the following to build the client packages:

```shell
pnpm install
npm run build
```

You can use the experimental worker mode to get faster build time as well: `npm run build:fast`

See also: [Contributing](#Contributing)

## Build in VSCode

To build Fluid Framework within VSCode, open the Fluid Framework repo folder as a work space and use Ctrl-Shift-B
to activate the build task. It is the same as running `npm run build` on the command line.

## NodeJs Installation

We recommend using nvm (for [Windows](https://github.com/coreybutler/nvm-windows) or
[MacOS/Linux](https://github.com/nvm-sh/nvm)) or [fnm](https://github.com/Schniz/fnm) to install Node.js.
This ensures you stay at the correct version while allowing other uses of NodeJS to use the (possibly different) versions they need side-by-side.

Because of a transitive dependency on a native addon module, you'll also need to ensure that you have the prerequisites for `node-gyp`.
Depending on your operating system, you'll have slightly different installation requirements (these are largely copied from `node-gyp`'s [documentation](https://github.com/nodejs/node-gyp#readme)):

### On Windows

The node installer should ask if you want to install "Tools for Native Modules." If you check the box for this nothing further should be needed. Otherwise, you can follow the steps listed [here](https://github.com/Microsoft/nodejs-guidelines/blob/master/windows-environment.md#prerequisites)

### On Unix

1. Python v3.7, v3.8, v3.9, or v3.10
2. `make`
3. A C/C++ toolchain (like [GCC](https://gcc.gnu.org/))

### On MacOS

If you've _upgraded_ your Mac to Catalina or higher, you may need to follow [these](https://github.com/nodejs/node-gyp/blob/main/macOS_Catalina.md) instructions.

1. Python v3.7, v3.8, v3.9, or v3.10
2. `XCode Command Line Tools`, which will install `make`, `clang`, and `clang++`
    - You can install these by running `xcode-select --install` from a command line.

### Other Build Requirements

-   Building [server/Routerlicious](./server/routerlicious/README.md)
    -   Refer to that package's README for additional requirements.
    -   Note that these requirements do not affect all workflows (e.g. the one noted [above](#building)), but will affect workflows that include the packages under `server`.

#### On Windows

-   Ensure that you have enabled running Powershell scripts by setting your environment's [Execution Policy](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/powershell/module/microsoft.powershell.security/set-executionpolicy?view=powershell-7.2).

### Other Build Commands

#### Building our docs

There are a few different areas in which we generate documentation content as a part our overall build.

1. [fluidframework.com]()
    - We build the contents of our public website from the `docs` directory under the root of this repo.
      See its [README](./docs/README.md) for more details.
2. Generated README contents
    - We leverage a local tool ([markdown-magic](./tools/markdown-magic/README.md)) to generate / embed contents in our various package-level READMEs.
      This is done as a part of a full build, but it can also be executed in isolation by running `npm run build:readme` from the repo root.
3. API reports
    - We leverage [API-Extractor](https://api-extractor.com/) to generate summaries of our package APIs.
      This is done as a part of a full build, but it can also be executed in isolation by running `npm run build:api` from the repo root.

## Common Workflows and Patterns

This section contains common workflows and patterns to increase inner dev loop efficiency.

### Build

-   `pnpm install` from the root of the repository to install dependencies. This is necessary for new clones or after pulling changes from the main branch.
-   `pnpm run build:fast` from the root of the repository to perform an incremental build that matches the CI build process. Incremental builds tend to leave extra files laying around, so running a clean is sometimes needed to cleanup ghost tests
-   `pnpm run build:fast -- <path>` to build only a specific part of the repository.
-   `pnpm run build` within a package directory to build that package.
-   `pnpm run build:compile` for cross-package compilation.
-   `pnpm run format` to format the code.

-   `fluid-build --vscode` to output error message to work with default problem matcher in vscode. If `fluid-build` is not installed, please install it with `npm i -g @fluidframework/build-tools`.

#### Multi package setup

-   `fluid-build -t build <NAME_OF_PACKAGES>` to build a multiple space-separated packages along with all their dependencies. If `fluid-build` is not installed, please install it with `npm i -g @fluidframework/build-tools`.

### Debug

-   You can also use the VSCode JS debug terminal, then run the test as normal.

-   Sometimes, uncommitted changes can cause build failures. Committing changes might be necessary to resolve such issues.

### Troubleshooting

-   `pnpm clean` if random build failures, especially with no changes
-   `git clean -xdf` to remove extraneous files if debugging becomes slow or hangs.

### Repo maintenance

It's a good idea to periodically run `git maintenance run` in the folder where you cloned the repository
(by default this will just run git's garbage collection)
to keep its size down and operations on it as snappy as possible.

Depending on your environment you might want to run `git maintenance start` instead,
which will schedule maintenance to run periodically.
- It should work on Windows because it leverages Task Scheduler.
- It won't work in WSL unless [you configure it to use systemd](https://devblogs.microsoft.com/commandline/systemd-support-is-now-available-in-wsl/),
which could have other implications for your system, so proceed with caution.
- It won't work on Codespaces because it doesn't run `cron`.

## Testing

You can run all of our tests from the root of the repo, or you can run a scoped set of tests by running the `test`
command from the package you're interested in.

Note: Some of the tests depend on test collateral that lives in a submodule here:
<https://github.com/microsoft/FluidFrameworkTestData>. You may choose to fetch that collateral into your local
repository, which is required to run all the tests - otherwise some will be skipped.

First, ensure you have installed [Git LFS](https://git-lfs.com/).
Then, from the repo root:

```shell
git lfs install
git submodule init
git submodule update
```

### Run the tests

Before running the tests, the project has to be built. Depending on what tests you want to run, execute the following command in the package directory or at the root:

```shell
npm run test
```

-   To run a single test within a module, add `.only` to `it` or `describe`. To exclude a test, use `.skip`.
-   You can use `ts-mocha` to quickly run specific test files without needing to make the whole project compile. For more details on test filtering using CLI arguments, refer to the [Mocha documentation](https://mochajs.org/#command-line-usage).

-   Our test setup generally requires building before running the tests.
-   Incremental builds may leave extra files, which can result in ghost tests. To avoid this, consider running a clean build with the following command:

```shell
pnpm clean <package>
```

This removes any leftover files from previous builds, providing a clean testing environment.

### Include code coverage

```shell
npm run test:coverage
```

### Mimic the official CI build

Our CI pipelines run on Linux machines, and the npm scripts all have the `ci` prefix.
To replicate the test steps from the CI pipeline locally, run the following commands for the packages or pnpm workspaces:

| Run      | Non-Windows                | Windows                                             |
| -------- | -------------------------- | --------------------------------------------------- |
| PR       | `npm run ci:test`          | `npm run test:report && npm run test:copyresults`   |
| Official | `npm run ci:test:coverage` | `npm run test:coverage && npm run test:copyresults` |

### Run tests from within VS Code

We've checked in [VS Code configuration](https://github.com/microsoft/FluidFramework/blob/main/.vscode/launch.json)
enabling F5 from a `spec.ts` file to run those tests if you set the debug configuration to "Debug Current Test".

## Run it locally

### Single browser window, two panes

_This will use an in-memory implementation of the Fluid server to sync between the two panes in the browser window._

-   Choose an example under `/examples`
-   Navigate to the example's directory, e.g. `/examples/data-objects/clicker`
-   `npm run start`
-   Browse to <http://localhost:8080> to interact with two copies of the example side-by-side

### Multiple browser instances on the same device

_This will run the local Fluid server implementation we call "Tinylicious", so you can sync between multiple browser
instances._

First, start Tinylicious by running these commands from `/server/routerlicious/`:

```shell
pnpm install
```

Then these commands from `/server/routerlicious/packages/tinylicious`:

```shell
pnpm run build
pnpm run start
```

Then:

-   Navigate to the example of your choice (same as above)
-   `npm run start:tinylicious`
-   Browse to <http://localhost:8080,> copy the full URL you're redirected to, and open in a second window to collaborate

## Tools

### Biome

This repository uses [biome](https://biomejs.dev/formatter/) as its code formatter.
Right now, this is implemented on a per-package basis, with a [shared base configuration](./biome.jsonc).

-   To run `biome` on your code, run `npm run format` from the appropriate package or release group, or run
    `npm run format:changed` from the root of the repo to format only files changed since the main branch.
-   To run `biome` with [fluid-build](./build-tools/packages/build-tools/README.md), you can specify "format" via the
    script argument: `fluid-build -t format` or `npm run build:fast -- -t format`

To ensure our formatting remains consistent, we run a formatting check as a part of each package's `lint` script.

#### VSCode Options

Our [workspace configuration](./.vscode/settings.json) specifies `biome` as the default formatter.
Please do not change this.

It is not configured to do any formatting automatically, however.
This is intentional, to ensure that each developer can work formatting into their workflow as they see fit.
If you wish to configure your setup to format on save/paste/etc., please feel free to update your [user preferences](https://code.visualstudio.com/docs/getstarted/settings) to do so.

Notable setting options:

-   `format on save`
-   `format on paste`

<img src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/54606601/217620203-0cb07007-0aaa-4e57-bc83-973ed4a3f2d7.png" alt="User editor formatting setting options" style="height:400px;"/>

### Git Configuration

Run the following command in each of your repositories to ignore formatting changes in git blame commands: `git config --local blame.ignoreRevsFile .git-blame-ignore-revs`

## Developer notes

### Root dependencies

The root package.json in the repo includes devDependencies on the mocha and jest testing tools. This is to enable easier
test running and debugging using VSCode. However, this makes it possible for projects to have a 'phantom dependency' on
these tools. That is, because mocha/jest is always available in the root, projects in the repo will be able to find
mocha/jest even if they don't express a dependency on those packages in their package.json. We have lint rules in place
to prevent phantom dependencies from being introduced but they're not foolproof.

## Contributing

<!-- AUTO-GENERATED-CONTENT:START (CONTRIBUTION_GUIDELINES:includeHeading=FALSE) -->

<!-- prettier-ignore-start -->
<!-- NOTE: This section is automatically generated using @fluid-tools/markdown-magic. Do not update these generated contents directly. -->

There are many ways to [contribute](https://github.com/microsoft/FluidFramework/blob/main/CONTRIBUTING.md) to Fluid.

-   Participate in Q&A in our [GitHub Discussions](https://github.com/microsoft/FluidFramework/discussions).
-   [Submit bugs](https://github.com/microsoft/FluidFramework/issues) and help us verify fixes as they are checked in.
-   Review the [source code changes](https://github.com/microsoft/FluidFramework/pulls).
-   [Contribute bug fixes](https://github.com/microsoft/FluidFramework/blob/main/CONTRIBUTING.md).

Detailed instructions for working in the repo can be found in the [Wiki](https://github.com/microsoft/FluidFramework/wiki).

This project has adopted the [Microsoft Open Source Code of Conduct](https://opensource.microsoft.com/codeofconduct/).
For more information see the [Code of Conduct FAQ](https://opensource.microsoft.com/codeofconduct/faq/) or contact [opencode@microsoft.com](mailto:opencode@microsoft.com) with any additional questions or comments.

This project may contain Microsoft trademarks or logos for Microsoft projects, products, or services.
Use of these trademarks or logos must follow Microsoft’s [Trademark & Brand Guidelines](https://www.microsoft.com/trademarks).
Use of Microsoft trademarks or logos in modified versions of this project must not cause confusion or imply Microsoft sponsorship.

<!-- prettier-ignore-end -->

<!-- AUTO-GENERATED-CONTENT:END -->
