{
"title": "CursorWithNode Interface",
"summary": "[ITreeCursorSynchronous](/docs/apis/tree/itreecursorsynchronous-interface) that can return the underlying node objects.",
"kind": "Interface",
"members": {
"MethodSignature": {
"fork": "/docs/apis/tree/cursorwithnode-interface#fork-methodsignature",
"getNode": "/docs/apis/tree/cursorwithnode-interface#getnode-methodsignature"
}
},
"package": "@fluid-internal/tree",
"unscopedPackageName": "tree"
}

[//]: # "Do not edit this file. It is automatically generated by @fluidtools/api-markdown-documenter."

[Packages](/docs/apis/) &gt; [@fluid-internal/tree](/docs/apis/tree) &gt; [CursorWithNode](/docs/apis/tree/cursorwithnode-interface)

[ITreeCursorSynchronous](/docs/apis/tree/itreecursorsynchronous-interface) that can return the underlying node objects.

## Signature {#cursorwithnode-signature}

```typescript
export interface CursorWithNode<TNode> extends ITreeCursorSynchronous
```

<b>Extends:</b> [ITreeCursorSynchronous](/docs/apis/tree/itreecursorsynchronous-interface)

<b>Type parameters:</b>

-   <b>TNode</b>

## Methods

<table class="table table-striped table-hover">
  <thead>
    <tr>
      <th scope="col">
        Method
      </th>
      <th scope="col">
        Return Type
      </th>
      <th scope="col">
        Description
      </th>
    </tr>
  </thead>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td>
        <a href='/docs/apis/tree/cursorwithnode-interface#fork-methodsignature'>fork</a>
      </td>
      <td>
        <a href='/docs/apis/tree/cursorwithnode-interface'>CursorWithNode</a><TNode>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>Create a copy of this cursor which navigates independently, and is initially located at the same place as this one.</p><p>Depending on the cursor implementation this may be significantly faster than other ways to copy the cursor (such as creating a new one and walking the path from this one).</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>
        <a href='/docs/apis/tree/cursorwithnode-interface#getnode-methodsignature'>getNode</a>
      </td>
      <td>
        TNode
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>Gets the underlying object for the current node.</p><p>Only valid when <code>mode</code> is <code>Nodes</code>.</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

## Method Details

### fork {#fork-methodsignature}

Create a copy of this cursor which navigates independently, and is initially located at the same place as this one.

Depending on the cursor implementation this may be significantly faster than other ways to copy the cursor (such as creating a new one and walking the path from this one).

#### Signature {#fork-signature}

```typescript
fork(): CursorWithNode<TNode>;
```

#### Returns {#fork-returns}

<b>Return type:</b> [CursorWithNode](/docs/apis/tree/cursorwithnode-interface)<!-- -->&lt;TNode&gt;

### getNode {#getnode-methodsignature}

Gets the underlying object for the current node.

Only valid when `mode` is `Nodes`<!-- -->.

#### Signature {#getnode-signature}

```typescript
getNode(): TNode;
```

#### Returns {#getnode-returns}

<b>Return type:</b> TNode
