{
"title": "FullSchemaPolicy Interface",
"summary": "Policy from the app for interpreting the stored schema. The app must ensure consistency for all users of the document.",
"kind": "Interface",
"members": {
"PropertySignature": {
"fieldKinds": "/docs/apis/tree/fullschemapolicy-interface#fieldkinds-propertysignature"
}
},
"package": "@fluid-internal/tree",
"unscopedPackageName": "tree"
}

[//]: # "Do not edit this file. It is automatically generated by @fluidtools/api-markdown-documenter."

[Packages](/docs/apis/) &gt; [@fluid-internal/tree](/docs/apis/tree) &gt; [FullSchemaPolicy](/docs/apis/tree/fullschemapolicy-interface)

Policy from the app for interpreting the stored schema. The app must ensure consistency for all users of the document.

## Signature {#fullschemapolicy-signature}

```typescript
export interface FullSchemaPolicy extends SchemaPolicy
```

<b>Extends:</b> [SchemaPolicy](/docs/apis/tree/schemapolicy-interface)

## Properties

<table class="table table-striped table-hover">
  <thead>
    <tr>
      <th scope="col">
        Property
      </th>
      <th scope="col">
        Type
      </th>
      <th scope="col">
        Description
      </th>
    </tr>
  </thead>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td>
        <a href='/docs/apis/tree/fullschemapolicy-interface#fieldkinds-propertysignature'>fieldKinds</a>
      </td>
      <td>
        ReadonlyMap<<a href='/docs/apis/tree#fieldkindidentifier-typealias'>FieldKindIdentifier</a>, <a href='/docs/apis/tree/fieldkind-class'>FieldKind</a>>
      </td>
      <td>
        Policy information about FieldKinds: This is typically stored as code, not in documents, and defines how to handles fields based on their kind. It is assumed that all users of a document will have exactly the same FieldKind policies, though older applications might be missing some, and will be unable to process any changes that use those FieldKinds.
      </td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

## Property Details

### fieldKinds {#fieldkinds-propertysignature}

Policy information about FieldKinds: This is typically stored as code, not in documents, and defines how to handles fields based on their kind. It is assumed that all users of a document will have exactly the same FieldKind policies, though older applications might be missing some, and will be unable to process any changes that use those FieldKinds.

#### Signature {#fieldkinds-signature}

```typescript
readonly fieldKinds: ReadonlyMap<FieldKindIdentifier, FieldKind>;
```
