{
"title": "ISharedTree Interface",
"summary": "Collaboratively editable tree distributed data-structure, powered by <i>@fluidframework/shared-object-base\\#ISharedObject</i>.\n\nSee \\[the README\\](../../README.md) for details.",
"kind": "Interface",
"members": {
"PropertySignature": {
"context": "/docs/apis/tree/isharedtree-interface#context-propertysignature",
"storedSchema": "/docs/apis/tree/isharedtree-interface#storedschema-propertysignature"
},
"Property": {
"root": "/docs/apis/tree/isharedtree-interface#root-property"
}
},
"package": "@fluid-internal/tree",
"unscopedPackageName": "tree"
}

[//]: # "Do not edit this file. It is automatically generated by @fluidtools/api-markdown-documenter."

[Packages](/docs/apis/) &gt; [@fluid-internal/tree](/docs/apis/tree) &gt; [ISharedTree](/docs/apis/tree/isharedtree-interface)

Collaboratively editable tree distributed data-structure, powered by <i>@fluidframework/shared-object-base\#ISharedObject</i>.

See \[the README\](../../README.md) for details.

## Signature {#isharedtree-signature}

```typescript
export interface ISharedTree extends ICheckout<IDefaultEditBuilder>, ISharedObject, AnchorLocator
```

<b>Extends:</b> [ICheckout](/docs/apis/tree/icheckout-interface)<!-- -->&lt;[IDefaultEditBuilder](/docs/apis/tree/idefaulteditbuilder-interface)<!-- -->&gt;, ISharedObject, [AnchorLocator](/docs/apis/tree/anchorlocator-interface)

## Properties

<table class="table table-striped table-hover">
  <thead>
    <tr>
      <th scope="col">
        Property
      </th>
      <th scope="col">
        Type
      </th>
      <th scope="col">
        Description
      </th>
    </tr>
  </thead>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td>
        <a href='/docs/apis/tree/isharedtree-interface#context-propertysignature'>context</a>
      </td>
      <td>
        <a href='/docs/apis/tree/editabletreecontext-interface'>EditableTreeContext</a>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>Context for controlling the EditableTree nodes produced from <a href='/docs/apis/tree/isharedtree-interface#root-property'>ISharedTree.root</a>.</p><p>TODO: Exposing access to this should be unneeded once editing APIs are finished.</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>
        <a href='/docs/apis/tree/isharedtree-interface#storedschema-propertysignature'>storedSchema</a>
      </td>
      <td>
        <a href='/docs/apis/tree/storedschemarepository-interface'>StoredSchemaRepository</a>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>Read and Write access for schema stored in the document.</p><p>These APIs are temporary and will be replaced with different abstractions (View Schema based) in a different place later.</p><p>TODO: Editing of this should be moved into transactions with the rest of tree editing to they can be intermixed. This will be done after the relations between branches and Indexes are figured out.</p><p>TODO: Public APIs for dealing with schema should be in terms of View Schema, and schema update policies. The actual stored schema should be hidden (or ar least not be the most prominent way to interact with schema).</p><p>TODO: Something should ensure the document contents are always in schema.</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

## Property Details

### context {#context-propertysignature}

Context for controlling the EditableTree nodes produced from [ISharedTree.root](/docs/apis/tree/isharedtree-interface#root-property)<!-- -->.

TODO: Exposing access to this should be unneeded once editing APIs are finished.

#### Signature {#context-signature}

```typescript
readonly context: EditableTreeContext;
```

### storedSchema {#storedschema-propertysignature}

Read and Write access for schema stored in the document.

These APIs are temporary and will be replaced with different abstractions (View Schema based) in a different place later.

TODO: Editing of this should be moved into transactions with the rest of tree editing to they can be intermixed. This will be done after the relations between branches and Indexes are figured out.

TODO: Public APIs for dealing with schema should be in terms of View Schema, and schema update policies. The actual stored schema should be hidden (or ar least not be the most prominent way to interact with schema).

TODO: Something should ensure the document contents are always in schema.

#### Signature {#storedschema-signature}

```typescript
readonly storedSchema: StoredSchemaRepository;
```
