{"kind":"Interface","title":"ISummaryHandle Interface","summary":"Path to a summary tree object from the last successful summary indicating the summary object hasn't changed since it was uploaded.","members":{"PropertySignature":{"handle":"/docs/apis/protocol-definitions/isummaryhandle#handle-PropertySignature","handleType":"/docs/apis/protocol-definitions/isummaryhandle#handletype-PropertySignature","type":"/docs/apis/protocol-definitions/isummaryhandle#type-PropertySignature"}},"package":"@fluidframework/protocol-definitions","unscopedPackageName":"protocol-definitions"}

[//]: # (Do not edit this file. It is automatically generated by API Documenter.)

[Packages](/docs/apis/) &gt; [@fluidframework/protocol-definitions](/docs/apis/protocol-definitions) &gt; [ISummaryHandle](/docs/apis/protocol-definitions/isummaryhandle)

Path to a summary tree object from the last successful summary indicating the summary object hasn't changed since it was uploaded.

<b>Signature:</b>

```typescript
export interface ISummaryHandle 
```

## Example

To illustrate, if a DataStore did not change since last summary, the framework runtime will use a handle for the entire DataStore instead of re-sending the entire subtree. The same concept applies for a DDS. An example of handle would be: '/<DataStoreId>/<DDSId>'.

## Properties

<table class="table table-striped table-hover property-list">
<caption>List of properties on this interface</caption>
  <thead>
    <tr>
     <th scope="col">Property</th>
 <th scope="col">Type</th>
 <th scope="col">Description</th>
    </tr>
  </thead>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td><a href='/docs/apis/protocol-definitions/isummaryhandle#handle-PropertySignature'>handle</a></td>
      <td>string</td>
      <td>Unique path that identifies the corresponding sub-tree in a previous summary.</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td><a href='/docs/apis/protocol-definitions/isummaryhandle#handletype-PropertySignature'>handleType</a></td>
      <td><a href='/docs/apis/protocol-definitions#summarytypenohandle-TypeAlias'>SummaryTypeNoHandle</a></td>
      <td>Type of Summary Handle (SummaryType.Handle is not supported).</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td><a href='/docs/apis/protocol-definitions/isummaryhandle#type-PropertySignature'>type</a></td>
      <td><a href='/docs/apis/protocol-definitions/summarytype#handle-TypeAlias'>SummaryType.Handle</a></td>
      <td></td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

<hr><div id=interface-details>

## Property Details {#properties-details}

### handle {#handle-PropertySignature}

Unique path that identifies the corresponding sub-tree in a previous summary.

<b>Signature:</b>

```typescript
handle: string;
```

### handleType {#handletype-PropertySignature}

Type of Summary Handle (SummaryType.Handle is not supported).

<b>Signature:</b>

```typescript
handleType: SummaryTypeNoHandle;
```

### type {#type-PropertySignature}

<b>Signature:</b>

```typescript
type: SummaryType.Handle;
```

</div>
