{
  "title": "IDirectoryDeleteSubDirectoryOperation Interface",
  "summary": "Operation indicating a subdirectory should be deleted.",
  "kind": "Interface",
  "members": {
    "PropertySignature": {
      "path": "/docs/apis/map/idirectorydeletesubdirectoryoperation-interface#path-propertysignature",
      "subdirName": "/docs/apis/map/idirectorydeletesubdirectoryoperation-interface#subdirname-propertysignature",
      "type": "/docs/apis/map/idirectorydeletesubdirectoryoperation-interface#type-propertysignature"
    }
  },
  "package": "@fluidframework/map",
  "unscopedPackageName": "map"
}

[//]: # (Do not edit this file. It is automatically generated by @fluidtools/api-markdown-documenter.)

Operation indicating a subdirectory should be deleted.

WARNING: This API is provided as an alpha preview and may change without notice. Use at your own risk.

## Signature {#idirectorydeletesubdirectoryoperation-signature}

```typescript
export interface IDirectoryDeleteSubDirectoryOperation
```

## Properties

<table class="table table-striped table-hover">
  <thead>
    <tr>
      <th>
        Property
      </th>
      <th>
        Alerts
      </th>
      <th>
        Type
      </th>
      <th>
        Description
      </th>
    </tr>
  </thead>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td>
        <a href='/docs/apis/map/idirectorydeletesubdirectoryoperation-interface#path-propertysignature'>path</a>
      </td>
      <td>
        <code>ALPHA</code>
      </td>
      <td>
        <span>string</span>
      </td>
      <td>
        Absolute path of the directory that contains the directory to be deleted.
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>
        <a href='/docs/apis/map/idirectorydeletesubdirectoryoperation-interface#subdirname-propertysignature'>subdirName</a>
      </td>
      <td>
        <code>ALPHA</code>
      </td>
      <td>
        <span>string</span>
      </td>
      <td>
        Name of the subdirectory to be deleted.
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>
        <a href='/docs/apis/map/idirectorydeletesubdirectoryoperation-interface#type-propertysignature'>type</a>
      </td>
      <td>
        <code>ALPHA</code>
      </td>
      <td>
        <span>&quot;deleteSubDirectory&quot;</span>
      </td>
      <td>
        String identifier of the operation type.
      </td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

## Property Details

### path (ALPHA) {#path-propertysignature}

Absolute path of the directory that contains the directory to be deleted.

WARNING: This API is provided as an alpha preview and may change without notice. Use at your own risk.

#### Signature {#path-signature}

```typescript
path: string;
```

### subdirName (ALPHA) {#subdirname-propertysignature}

Name of the subdirectory to be deleted.

WARNING: This API is provided as an alpha preview and may change without notice. Use at your own risk.

#### Signature {#subdirname-signature}

```typescript
subdirName: string;
```

### type (ALPHA) {#type-propertysignature}

String identifier of the operation type.

WARNING: This API is provided as an alpha preview and may change without notice. Use at your own risk.

#### Signature {#type-signature}

```typescript
type: "deleteSubDirectory";
```
