{
  "title": "IDirectoryEvents Interface",
  "summary": "Events emitted in response to changes to the directory data.",
  "kind": "Interface",
  "members": {
    "CallSignature": {
      "(call)": "/docs/apis/map/idirectoryevents-interface#_call__4-callsignature"
    }
  },
  "package": "@fluidframework/map",
  "unscopedPackageName": "map"
}

[//]: # (Do not edit this file. It is automatically generated by @fluidtools/api-markdown-documenter.)

[Packages](/docs/apis/) &gt; [@fluidframework/map](/docs/apis/map) &gt; [IDirectoryEvents](/docs/apis/map/idirectoryevents-interface)

Events emitted in response to changes to the directory data.

## Signature {#idirectoryevents-signature}

```typescript
export interface IDirectoryEvents extends IEvent
```

**Extends:** IEvent

## Call Signatures

<table class="table table-striped table-hover">
  <thead>
    <tr>
      <th>
        CallSignature
      </th>
      <th>
        Description
      </th>
    </tr>
  </thead>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td>
        <a href='/docs/apis/map/idirectoryevents-interface#_call_-callsignature'>(event: &quot;containedValueChanged&quot;, listener: (changed: IValueChanged, local: boolean, target: IEventThisPlaceHolder) =&gt; void): any</a>
      </td>
      <td>
        Emitted when a key is set or deleted. As opposed to the <a href='/docs/apis/map/shareddirectory-class'>SharedDirectory</a>'s valueChanged event, this is emitted only on the <a href='/docs/apis/map/idirectory-interface'>IDirectory</a> that directly contains the key.
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>
        <a href='/docs/apis/map/idirectoryevents-interface#_call__1-callsignature'>(event: &quot;subDirectoryCreated&quot;, listener: (path: string, local: boolean, target: IEventThisPlaceHolder) =&gt; void): any</a>
      </td>
      <td>
        Emitted when a subdirectory is created. Also emitted when a delete of a subdirectory is rolled back.
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>
        <a href='/docs/apis/map/idirectoryevents-interface#_call__2-callsignature'>(event: &quot;subDirectoryDeleted&quot;, listener: (path: string, local: boolean, target: IEventThisPlaceHolder) =&gt; void): any</a>
      </td>
      <td>
        Emitted when a subdirectory is deleted.
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>
        <a href='/docs/apis/map/idirectoryevents-interface#_call__3-callsignature'>(event: &quot;disposed&quot;, listener: (target: IEventThisPlaceHolder) =&gt; void): any</a>
      </td>
      <td>
        Emitted when this sub directory is deleted.
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>
        <a href='/docs/apis/map/idirectoryevents-interface#_call__4-callsignature'>(event: &quot;undisposed&quot;, listener: (target: IEventThisPlaceHolder) =&gt; void): any</a>
      </td>
      <td>
        Emitted when this previously deleted sub directory is restored. This event only needs to be handled in the case of rollback. If your application does not use the local rollback feature, you can ignore this event.
      </td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

## Call Signature Details

### (event: "containedValueChanged", listener: (changed: IValueChanged, local: boolean, target: IEventThisPlaceHolder) =&gt; void): any {#_call_-callsignature}

Emitted when a key is set or deleted. As opposed to the [SharedDirectory](/docs/apis/map/shareddirectory-class)'s valueChanged event, this is emitted only on the [IDirectory](/docs/apis/map/idirectory-interface) that directly contains the key.

#### Signature {#_call_-signature}

```typescript
(event: "containedValueChanged", listener: (changed: IValueChanged, local: boolean, target: IEventThisPlaceHolder) => void): any;
```

#### Remarks {#_call_-remarks}

Listener parameters:

- `changed` - Information on the key that changed and its value prior to the change.

- `local` - Whether the change originated from this client.

- `target` - The [IDirectory](/docs/apis/map/idirectory-interface) itself.

### (event: "subDirectoryCreated", listener: (path: string, local: boolean, target: IEventThisPlaceHolder) =&gt; void): any {#_call__1-callsignature}

Emitted when a subdirectory is created. Also emitted when a delete of a subdirectory is rolled back.

#### Signature {#_call__1-signature}

```typescript
(event: "subDirectoryCreated", listener: (path: string, local: boolean, target: IEventThisPlaceHolder) => void): any;
```

#### Remarks {#_call__1-remarks}

Listener parameters:

- `path` - The relative path to the subdirectory that is created. It is relative from the object which raises the event.

- `local` - Whether the creation originated from the this client.

- `target` - The [ISharedDirectory](/docs/apis/map/ishareddirectory-interface) itself.

### (event: "subDirectoryDeleted", listener: (path: string, local: boolean, target: IEventThisPlaceHolder) =&gt; void): any {#_call__2-callsignature}

Emitted when a subdirectory is deleted.

#### Signature {#_call__2-signature}

```typescript
(event: "subDirectoryDeleted", listener: (path: string, local: boolean, target: IEventThisPlaceHolder) => void): any;
```

#### Remarks {#_call__2-remarks}

Listener parameters:

- `path` - The relative path to the subdirectory that is deleted. It is relative from the object which raises the event.

- `local` - Whether the delete originated from the this client.

- `target` - The [ISharedDirectory](/docs/apis/map/ishareddirectory-interface) itself.

### (event: "disposed", listener: (target: IEventThisPlaceHolder) =&gt; void): any {#_call__3-callsignature}

Emitted when this sub directory is deleted.

#### Signature {#_call__3-signature}

```typescript
(event: "disposed", listener: (target: IEventThisPlaceHolder) => void): any;
```

#### Remarks {#_call__3-remarks}

Listener parameters:

- `target` - The [IDirectory](/docs/apis/map/idirectory-interface) itself.

### (event: "undisposed", listener: (target: IEventThisPlaceHolder) =&gt; void): any {#_call__4-callsignature}

Emitted when this previously deleted sub directory is restored. This event only needs to be handled in the case of rollback. If your application does not use the local rollback feature, you can ignore this event.

#### Signature {#_call__4-signature}

```typescript
(event: "undisposed", listener: (target: IEventThisPlaceHolder) => void): any;
```

#### Remarks {#_call__4-remarks}

Listener parameters:

- `target` - The [IDirectory](/docs/apis/map/idirectory-interface) itself.
