# @fluid-tools/telemetry-generator

Internal tool to take JSON files and generate custom telemetry events based on the data in them. Used, for example,
to process the output of our performance tests and write relevant metrics to our monitoring systems.

## Running the tool

Install dependencies and build the project:

```bash
pnpm i
npm run build
```

This tool leverages [oclif](https://oclif.io/). To run it manually, you need to call oclif's `run` script in the `bin`
folder, like so:

```bash
node bin/run <arguments to the tool>
```

The `start` npm script can be used as an alternative to `node bin/run`, with an extra separator for the arguments, like
so:

```bash
npm run start -- <arguments to the tool>
```

The tool has two required arguments:

-   `--dir`: the path(s) to one or more folders which contain the JSON files to be processed
-   `--handlerModule`: the **absolute** path to a JavaScript file that exports a handler function which can process those
    JSON files. Relative paths are technically supported but you might need a good understanding of Node's
    [module resolution](https://www.typescriptlang.org/docs/handbook/module-resolution.html) to use them successfully.
    In short, a relative path will be resolved from the location of the executing file at runtime, and which file that is
    is not obvious when we're using OCLIF.

Run `node bin/run --help` for details on the arguments.

## Processing the Fluid Framework performance tests

When this tool is used to process our performance tests, the folders should contain files generated by the
[`@fluid-tools/benchmark`](../benchmark) tool, and the [handlers defined here](./src/handlers) can be used to process them.
Make sure to use the correct type of handler (execution time / memory usage) for the output files you want to process.
Only one type of file can be processed during a single run of this tool.

## Handling custom files

If you want to process your own JSON files with this tool you just need to pass a custom handler to it. See the
[handler template](./src/handlers/template.ts) for details on how that file should look like. Then call the tool as usual,
e.g.:

```bash
node bin/run --handlerModule /absolute/path/to/your/handler.js --dir /path/to/your/files
```
