{
  "title": "IMockContainerRuntimeOptions Interface",
  "summary": "Options for the container runtime mock.",
  "kind": "Interface",
  "members": {
    "PropertySignature": {
      "enableGroupedBatching": "/docs/apis/test-runtime-utils/imockcontainerruntimeoptions-interface#enablegroupedbatching-propertysignature",
      "flushMode": "/docs/apis/test-runtime-utils/imockcontainerruntimeoptions-interface#flushmode-propertysignature"
    }
  },
  "package": "@fluidframework/test-runtime-utils",
  "unscopedPackageName": "test-runtime-utils"
}

[//]: # (Do not edit this file. It is automatically generated by @fluidtools/api-markdown-documenter.)

Options for the container runtime mock.

WARNING: This API is provided as an alpha preview and may change without notice. Use at your own risk.

## Signature {#imockcontainerruntimeoptions-signature}

```typescript
export interface IMockContainerRuntimeOptions
```

## Properties

<table class="table table-striped table-hover">
  <thead>
    <tr>
      <th>
        Property
      </th>
      <th>
        Alerts
      </th>
      <th>
        Modifiers
      </th>
      <th>
        Type
      </th>
      <th>
        Description
      </th>
    </tr>
  </thead>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td>
        <a href='/docs/apis/test-runtime-utils/imockcontainerruntimeoptions-interface#enablegroupedbatching-propertysignature'>enableGroupedBatching</a>
      </td>
      <td>
        <code>ALPHA</code>
      </td>
      <td>
        <code>optional</code>, <code>readonly</code>
      </td>
      <td>
        <span>boolean</span>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>
          If configured, it will simulate group batching by forcing all ops within a batch to have the same sequence number.
        </p>
        <p>
          By default, the value is <code>false</code>
        </p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>
        <a href='/docs/apis/test-runtime-utils/imockcontainerruntimeoptions-interface#flushmode-propertysignature'>flushMode</a>
      </td>
      <td>
        <code>ALPHA</code>
      </td>
      <td>
        <code>optional</code>, <code>readonly</code>
      </td>
      <td>
        <span><a href='/docs/apis/runtime-definitions/flushmode-enum'>FlushMode</a></span>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>
          Configures the flush mode for the runtime. In Immediate flush mode the runtime will immediately send all operations to the driver layer, while in TurnBased the operations will be buffered and then sent them as a single batch when <code>flush()</code> is called on the runtime.
        </p>
        <p>
          By default, flush mode is Immediate.
        </p>
      </td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

## Property Details

### enableGroupedBatching (ALPHA) {#enablegroupedbatching-propertysignature}

If configured, it will simulate group batching by forcing all ops within a batch to have the same sequence number.

By default, the value is `false`

WARNING: This API is provided as an alpha preview and may change without notice. Use at your own risk.

#### Signature {#enablegroupedbatching-signature}

```typescript
readonly enableGroupedBatching?: boolean;
```

### flushMode (ALPHA) {#flushmode-propertysignature}

Configures the flush mode for the runtime. In Immediate flush mode the runtime will immediately send all operations to the driver layer, while in TurnBased the operations will be buffered and then sent them as a single batch when `flush()` is called on the runtime.

By default, flush mode is Immediate.

WARNING: This API is provided as an alpha preview and may change without notice. Use at your own risk.

#### Signature {#flushmode-signature}

```typescript
readonly flushMode?: FlushMode;
```
