docs/content/docs/testing/telemetry.md, before:

---
title: Logging and telemetry
menuPosition: 1
aliases:
  - "/docs/start/telemetry"
---


Telemetry is an essential part of maintaining the health of modern applications. Fluid Framework provides a way to plug
in your own logic to handle telemetry events sent by Fluid. This enables you to integrate the Fluid telemetry along with
your other telemetry, and route the event data in whatever way you need.

## Collect Fluid Framework logs with a custom `ITelemetryBaseLogger`

The `ITelemetryBaseLogger` is an interface within the `@fluidframework/common-definitions` package. This interface can
be implemented and passed into the client's `createContainer()` and `getContainer()` methods via the config parameter.

All Fluid service clients (for example, `FrsContainerConfig` and `TinyliciousContainerConfig`) allow passing a `logger?:
ITelemetryBaseLogger` into the service client configuration. Both `createContainer()` and `getContainer()` methods will
create an instance of a `Loader` class object, where the logger defined in the service client configuration is passed in
as an optional parameter, `ILoaderProps.logger`, in the `Loader` constructor argument.

[TinyliciousContainerConfig](https://github.com/microsoft/FluidFramework/blob/main/experimental/framework/tinylicious-client/src/interfaces.ts#L9)
interface definition takes an optional parameter `logger`. (The definition is similar to `FrsContainerConfig` interface)

[createContainer()](https://github.com/microsoft/FluidFramework/blob/main/experimental/framework/tinylicious-client/src/TinyliciousClient.ts#L50)
interface definition takes a `TinyliciousContainerConfig` type as its `serviceContainerConfig` argument. (The
`FrsClient` will take `FrsContainerConfig` for its respective methods)

[getContainer()](https://github.com/microsoft/FluidFramework/blob/main/experimental/framework/tinylicious-client/src/TinyliciousClient.ts#L65)
interface definition takes a `TinyliciousContainerConfig` type as its `serviceContainerConfig` argument. (The
`FrsClient` will take `FrsContainerConfig` for its respective methods)

```ts
const loader = new Loader({
  urlResolver: this.urlResolver,
  documentServiceFactory: this.documentServiceFactory,
  codeLoader,
  logger: tinyliciousContainerConfig.logger,
});
```

The `Loader` constructor is called by both `createContainer()` and `getContainer()`, and requires a `ILoaderProps`
interface as its constructor argument. `ILoaderProps` interface has an optional logger parameter that will take the
`ITelemetryBaseLogger` defined by the user.

[ILoaderProps.logger](https://github.com/microsoft/FluidFramework/blob/main/packages/loader/container-loader/src/loader.ts#L309)
is used by `Loader` to pipe to container's telemetry system.

### Properties and methods

The interface contains a `supportTags` property and a `send()` method as shown:

```ts
export interface ITelemetryBaseLogger {
  supportsTags?: true;
  send(event: ITelemetryBaseEvent): void;
}
```

- `send()`
  - The `send()` method is called by the container's telemetry system whenever a telemetry event occurs. This method
    takes in an ITelemetryBaseEvent type parameter, which is also within the `@fluidframework/common-definitions`
    package. Given this method is part of an interface, users can implement a custom telemetry logic for the container's
    telemetry system to execute.

### Customizing the logger object

In some cases you may wish to add custom attributes to the object implementing the `ITelemetryBaseLogger` interface. For
example, you may wish to handle some categories differently than others, or you may want to label categories based on
the input.

Regardless of your logic, `ITelemetryBaseLogger` must be implemented, and you must call the `send()` method ultimately
since it is the actual method that is piped to the container's telemetry system and sends the telemetry event.

To see an example of building custom logic into the telemetry implementation, see the `ITelemetryLogger` interface
snippets below, or in the `@fluidframework/common-definitions` package for full details.

```ts
// @public
export interface ITelemetryLogger extends ITelemetryBaseLogger {
    send(event: ITelemetryBaseEvent): void;
    sendErrorEvent(event: ITelemetryErrorEvent, error?: any): void;
    sendPerformanceEvent(event: ITelemetryPerformanceEvent, error?: any): void;
    sendTelemetryEvent(event: ITelemetryGenericEvent, error?: any): void;
}
```

`ITelemetryLogger` interface breaks down telemetry events into different categories, and will contains different logic
for different events.

```ts
/**
 * Send a telemetry event with the logger
 *
 * @param event - the event to send
 * @param error - optional error object to log
 */
public sendTelemetryEvent(event: ITelemetryGenericEvent, error?: any) {
  const newEvent: ITelemetryBaseEvent = {
    ...event,
    category: event.category ?? (error === undefined ?  "generic" : "error"),
  };
  if (error !== undefined) {
    TelemetryLogger.prepareErrorObject(newEvent, error, false);
  }
  this.send(newEvent);
}
```

Like demonstrated here, it is imperative to ensure `send()` is ultimately called at the end of custom properties for the
information to be piped to the container's telemetry system and sends the telemetry event.

## ITelemetryBaseEvent interface

All Fluid telemetry events are sent as `ITelemetryBaseEvent`s via the `send()` method in `ITelemetryBaseLogger`. This
interface can be augmented, allowing you to add additional properties that will be serialized as JSON. The default
required properties, `eventName` and `category`, are set by the telemetry system.

```ts
export interface ITelemetryBaseEvent extends ITelemetryProperties {
  category: string;
  eventName: string;
}
```

The `ITelemetryBaseEvent` contains `category` and `eventName` properties for labeling and defining a telemetry event.

- `ITelemetryProperties` extended by `ITelemetryBaseEvent`, is a type with a string index signature, the values are
   either tagged (`ITaggedTelemetryPropertyType`) or untagged (`TelemetryEventPropertyType`) primitives (`string`,
   `boolean`, `number`, `undefined`). It is imperative for you to know how to interpret and process these tagged values.
  - Tags are strings used to classify different events. In a simple logger, all events are untagged and handled the same
    by your logger's implementation. However, in some scenarios, where some data should be handled separately (for
    example, private customer data), those events could be tagged with a unique string so they could be treated
    differently downstream.

 ```ts
 export interface ITelemetryProperties {
    [index: string]: TelemetryEventPropertyType | ITaggedTelemetryPropertyType;
}
```

`ITelemetryProperties` values take untagged (`TelemetryEventPropertyType`) or tagged (`ITaggedTelemetryPropertyType`)
primitives.

- `TelemetryEventPropertyType` takes only `string`, `boolean`, `number`, `undefined` primitives.
- `ITaggedTelemetryPropertyType` is an interface that takes `TelemetryEventPropertyType` and a tag.

```ts
export interface ITaggedTelemetryPropertyType {
  value: TelemetryEventPropertyType,
  tag: string,
}
```

### Category

The Fluid Framework sends events in the following categories:

- error -- used to identify and report error conditions, e.g. duplicate data store IDs.
- performance -- used to track performance-critical code paths within the framework. For example, the summarizer tracks
  how long it takes to create or load a summary and reports this information in an event.
- generic -- used as a catchall for events that are informational and don't represent an activity with a duration like a
  performance event.

### EventName

This property contains a unique name for the event.

### Customizing logged events

Similar to the `ITelemetryBaseLogger` interface mentioned above, different levels of event complexity can also be
achieved by adding other attributes to the object implementing the `ITelemetryBaseEvent` interface. Below are some
examples:

```ts
if (chunk.version !== undefined) {
  logger.send({
      eventName: "MergeTreeChunk:serializeAsMinSupportedVersion",
      category: "generic",
      fromChunkVersion: chunk.version,
      toChunkVersion: undefined,
  });
}
```

The code snippet here implements a telemetry event without adding much complexity. The telemetry event object here adds
only a few other attributes to the `ITelemetryBaseEvent`.

```ts
/**
 * Send a telemetry event with the logger
 *
 * @param event - the event to send
 * @param error - optional error object to log
 */
public sendTelemetryEvent(event: ITelemetryGenericEvent, error?: any) {
  const newEvent: ITelemetryBaseEvent = {
    ...event,
    category: event.category ?? (error === undefined ?  "generic" : "error"),
  };
  if (error !== undefined) {
    TelemetryLogger.prepareErrorObject(newEvent, error, false);
  }
  this.send(newEvent);
}
```

However, the code snippet here shows a telemetry event object that adds much more complex logic to determine the event
that has occurred, then passes the resulting event to the `send()` method for the container's telemetry system to
output.

Here is the above telemetry event object in action:

```ts
this.logger.sendTelemetryEvent({
  eventName: "connectedStateRejected",
  source,
  pendingClientId: this.pendingClientId,
  clientId: this.clientId,
  hasTimer: this.prevClientLeftTimer.hasTimer,
  inQuorum: protocolHandler !== undefined && this.pendingClientId !== undefined
      && protocolHandler.quorum.getMember(this.pendingClientId) !== undefined,
});
```

## Code example

With the interface already hooked up to the container's telemetry system, it is easy for users to write a custom
telemetry object by implementing the `ITelemetryBaseLogger` interface and defining the `send()` method. Below is an
example custom telemetry logger, `ConsoleLogger`, that implements the `ITelemetryBaseLogger` interface. As the name
suggests, the `ConsoleLogger` defined the `send()` method to stringify the entire event object and print it to the
browser console.

```ts
import { ITelemetryBaseLogger, ITelemetryBaseEvent } from "@fluidframework/common-definitions";

// Define a custom ITelemetry Logger. This logger will be passed into TinyliciousClient
// and gets hooked up to the Tinylicious container telemetry system.
export class ConsoleLogger implements ITelemetryBaseLogger {
    constructor() {}
    send(event: ITelemetryBaseEvent) {
        console.log("Custom telemetry object array: ".concat(JSON.stringify(event)));
    }
}
```

This custom logger is then created and passed into the `getContainer()` and `createContainer()` in a `TinyliciousClient`
object. The custom logger is now hooked up to the container's telemetry system.

```ts
async function start(): Promise<void> {
    // Create a custom ITelemetryBaseLogger object to pass into the Tinylicious container
    // and hook to the Telemetry system
    const consoleLogger: ConsoleLogger = new ConsoleLogger();

    // Get or create the document depending if we are running through the create new flow
    const client = useFrs ? FrsClient :  new TinyliciousClient();
    const [fluidContainer, containerServices] = createNew
        ? await client.createContainer({ id: containerId, logger: consoleLogger }, containerSchema)
        : await client.getContainer({ id: containerId, logger: consoleLogger }, containerSchema);
```

Now, whenever a telemetry event is encountered, the custom `send()` method gets called and will print out the entire
event object.

<img src="https://fluidframework.blob.core.windows.net/static/images/consoleLogger_telemetry_in_action.png" alt="The
  ConsoleLogger sends telemetry events to the browser console for display.">

Commit message:

Improve documentation of telemetry tags (#6830)
Our plan has changed in terms of how to roll out support for tagged properties on telemetry events, so this change updates some documentation in the repo about it:

* Telemetry.md
* Several BREAKING.md (some retroactively)
* UPCOMING.md

One specific goal - in main there should be no more references to `supportsTags`, since starting with 0.45 tag support will be assumed (Internal Msft note -- it's already done for Office Fluid Logger).

docs/content/docs/testing/telemetry.md, after:

---
title: Logging and telemetry
menuPosition: 1
aliases:
  - "/docs/start/telemetry"
---


Telemetry is an essential part of maintaining the health of modern applications. Fluid Framework provides a way to plug
in your own logic to handle telemetry events sent by Fluid. This enables you to integrate the Fluid telemetry along with
your other telemetry, and route the event data in whatever way you need.

## Collect Fluid Framework logs with a custom `ITelemetryBaseLogger`

The `ITelemetryBaseLogger` is an interface within the `@fluidframework/common-definitions` package. This interface can
be implemented and passed into the client's `createContainer()` and `getContainer()` methods via the config parameter.

All Fluid service clients (for example, `FrsContainerConfig` and `TinyliciousContainerConfig`) allow passing a `logger?:
ITelemetryBaseLogger` into the service client configuration. Both `createContainer()` and `getContainer()` methods will
create an instance of a `Loader` class object, where the logger defined in the service client configuration is passed in
as an optional parameter, `ILoaderProps.logger`, in the `Loader` constructor argument.

[TinyliciousContainerConfig](https://github.com/microsoft/FluidFramework/blob/main/experimental/framework/tinylicious-client/src/interfaces.ts#L9)
interface definition takes an optional parameter `logger`. (The definition is similar to `FrsContainerConfig` interface)

[createContainer()](https://github.com/microsoft/FluidFramework/blob/main/experimental/framework/tinylicious-client/src/TinyliciousClient.ts#L50)
interface definition takes a `TinyliciousContainerConfig` type as its `serviceContainerConfig` argument. (The
`FrsClient` will take `FrsContainerConfig` for its respective methods)

[getContainer()](https://github.com/microsoft/FluidFramework/blob/main/experimental/framework/tinylicious-client/src/TinyliciousClient.ts#L65)
interface definition takes a `TinyliciousContainerConfig` type as its `serviceContainerConfig` argument. (The
`FrsClient` will take `FrsContainerConfig` for its respective methods)

```ts
const loader = new Loader({
  urlResolver: this.urlResolver,
  documentServiceFactory: this.documentServiceFactory,
  codeLoader,
  logger: tinyliciousContainerConfig.logger,
});
```

The `Loader` constructor is called by both `createContainer()` and `getContainer()`, and requires a `ILoaderProps`
interface as its constructor argument. `ILoaderProps` interface has an optional logger parameter that will take the
`ITelemetryBaseLogger` defined by the user.

[ILoaderProps.logger](https://github.com/microsoft/FluidFramework/blob/main/packages/loader/container-loader/src/loader.ts#L309)
is used by `Loader` to pipe to container's telemetry system.

### Properties and methods

The interface contains a `send()` method as shown:

```ts
export interface ITelemetryBaseLogger {
  send(event: ITelemetryBaseEvent): void;
}
```

- `send()`
  - The `send()` method is called by the container's telemetry system whenever a telemetry event occurs. This method
    takes in an ITelemetryBaseEvent type parameter, which is also within the `@fluidframework/common-definitions`
    package. Given this method is part of an interface, users can implement a custom telemetry logic for the container's
    telemetry system to execute.

### Customizing the logger object

In some cases you may wish to add custom attributes to the object implementing the `ITelemetryBaseLogger` interface. For
example, you may wish to handle some categories differently than others, or you may want to label categories based on
the input.

Regardless of your logic, `ITelemetryBaseLogger` must be implemented, and you must call the `send()` method ultimately
since it is the actual method that is piped to the container's telemetry system and sends the telemetry event.

To see an example of building custom logic into the telemetry implementation, see the `ITelemetryLogger` interface
snippets below, or in the `@fluidframework/common-definitions` package for full details.

```ts
// @public
export interface ITelemetryLogger extends ITelemetryBaseLogger {
    send(event: ITelemetryBaseEvent): void;
    sendErrorEvent(event: ITelemetryErrorEvent, error?: any): void;
    sendPerformanceEvent(event: ITelemetryPerformanceEvent, error?: any): void;
    sendTelemetryEvent(event: ITelemetryGenericEvent, error?: any): void;
}
```

`ITelemetryLogger` interface breaks down telemetry events into different categories, and will contains different logic
for different events.

```ts
/**
 * Send a telemetry event with the logger
 *
 * @param event - the event to send
 * @param error - optional error object to log
 */
public sendTelemetryEvent(event: ITelemetryGenericEvent, error?: any) {
  const newEvent: ITelemetryBaseEvent = {
    ...event,
    category: event.category ?? (error === undefined ?  "generic" : "error"),
  };
  if (error !== undefined) {
    TelemetryLogger.prepareErrorObject(newEvent, error, false);
  }
  this.send(newEvent);
}
```

Like demonstrated here, it is imperative to ensure `send()` is ultimately called at the end of custom properties for the
information to be piped to the container's telemetry system and sends the telemetry event.

## ITelemetryBaseEvent interface

All Fluid telemetry events are sent as `ITelemetryBaseEvent`s via the `send()` method in `ITelemetryBaseLogger`. This
interface can be augmented, allowing you to add additional properties that will be serialized as JSON. The default
required properties, `eventName` and `category`, are set by the telemetry system.

```ts
export interface ITelemetryBaseEvent extends ITelemetryProperties {
  category: string;
  eventName: string;
}

export interface ITelemetryProperties {
    [index: string]: TelemetryEventPropertyType | ITaggedTelemetryPropertyType;
}

export interface ITaggedTelemetryPropertyType {
  value: TelemetryEventPropertyType,
  tag: string,
}

export type TelemetryEventPropertyType = string | number | boolean | undefined;
```

The `ITelemetryBaseEvent` interface contains `category` and `eventName` properties for labeling and defining a telemetry event,
and extends `ITelemetryProperties` which has a string index signature. The values of the index signature are
either tagged (`ITaggedTelemetryPropertyType`) or untagged (`TelemetryEventPropertyType`) primitives (`string`,
`boolean`, `number`, `undefined`).

### Understanding Tags

Tags are strings used to classify the properties on telemetry events. In the course of operation,
the Fluid Framework may emit events with tagged properties, so implementations of `ITelemetryBaseLogger` must be
prepared to check for and interpret any tags.  Generally speaking, when logging to the user's console, tags can
be ignored and tagged values logged plainly, but when transmitting tagged properties to a telemetry service,
care should be taken to only log tagged properties where the tag is explicitly understood to indicate the value
is safe to log from a data privacy standpoint.

### Category

The Fluid Framework sends events in the following categories:

- error -- used to identify and report error conditions, e.g. duplicate data store IDs.
- performance -- used to track performance-critical code paths within the framework. For example, the summarizer tracks
  how long it takes to create or load a summary and reports this information in an event.
- generic -- used as a catchall for events that are informational and don't represent an activity with a duration like a
  performance event.

### EventName

This property contains a unique name for the event.

### Customizing logged events

Similar to the `ITelemetryBaseLogger` interface mentioned above, different levels of event complexity can also be
achieved by adding other attributes to the object implementing the `ITelemetryBaseEvent` interface. Below are some
examples:

```ts
if (chunk.version !== undefined) {
  logger.send({
      eventName: "MergeTreeChunk:serializeAsMinSupportedVersion",
      category: "generic",
      fromChunkVersion: chunk.version,
      toChunkVersion: undefined,
  });
}
```

The code snippet here implements a telemetry event without adding much complexity. The telemetry event object here adds
only a few other attributes to the `ITelemetryBaseEvent`.

```ts
/**
 * Send a telemetry event with the logger
 *
 * @param event - the event to send
 * @param error - optional error object to log
 */
public sendTelemetryEvent(event: ITelemetryGenericEvent, error?: any) {
  const newEvent: ITelemetryBaseEvent = {
    ...event,
    category: event.category ?? (error === undefined ?  "generic" : "error"),
  };
  if (error !== undefined) {
    TelemetryLogger.prepareErrorObject(newEvent, error, false);
  }
  this.send(newEvent);
}
```

However, the code snippet here shows a telemetry event object that adds much more complex logic to determine the event
that has occurred, then passes the resulting event to the `send()` method for the container's telemetry system to
output.

Here is the above telemetry event object in action:

```ts
this.logger.sendTelemetryEvent({
  eventName: "connectedStateRejected",
  source,
  pendingClientId: this.pendingClientId,
  clientId: this.clientId,
  hasTimer: this.prevClientLeftTimer.hasTimer,
  inQuorum: protocolHandler !== undefined && this.pendingClientId !== undefined
      && protocolHandler.quorum.getMember(this.pendingClientId) !== undefined,
});
```

## Code example

With the interface already hooked up to the container's telemetry system, it is easy for users to write a custom
telemetry object by implementing the `ITelemetryBaseLogger` interface and defining the `send()` method. Below is an
example custom telemetry logger, `ConsoleLogger`, that implements the `ITelemetryBaseLogger` interface. As the name
suggests, the `ConsoleLogger` defined the `send()` method to stringify the entire event object and print it to the
browser console.

```ts
import { ITelemetryBaseLogger, ITelemetryBaseEvent } from "@fluidframework/common-definitions";

// Define a custom ITelemetry Logger. This logger will be passed into TinyliciousClient
// and gets hooked up to the Tinylicious container telemetry system.
export class ConsoleLogger implements ITelemetryBaseLogger {
    constructor() {}
    send(event: ITelemetryBaseEvent) {
        console.log("Custom telemetry object array: ".concat(JSON.stringify(event)));
    }
}
```

This custom logger is then created and passed into the `getContainer()` and `createContainer()` in a `TinyliciousClient`
object. The custom logger is now hooked up to the container's telemetry system.

```ts
async function start(): Promise<void> {
    // Create a custom ITelemetryBaseLogger object to pass into the Tinylicious container
    // and hook to the Telemetry system
    const consoleLogger: ConsoleLogger = new ConsoleLogger();

    // Get or create the document depending if we are running through the create new flow
    const client = useFrs ? FrsClient :  new TinyliciousClient();
    const [fluidContainer, containerServices] = createNew
        ? await client.createContainer({ id: containerId, logger: consoleLogger }, containerSchema)
        : await client.getContainer({ id: containerId, logger: consoleLogger }, containerSchema);
```

Now, whenever a telemetry event is encountered, the custom `send()` method gets called and will print out the entire
event object.

<img src="https://fluidframework.blob.core.windows.net/static/images/consoleLogger_telemetry_in_action.png" alt="The
  ConsoleLogger sends telemetry events to the browser console for display.">
