{
  "title": "OdspMember Interface",
  "summary": "Since ODSP provides user names and email for all of its members, we extend the _@fluidframework/protocol-definitions\\#IMember_ interface to include this service-specific value. It will be returned for all audience members connected.",
  "kind": "Interface",
  "members": {
    "PropertySignature": {
      "email": "/docs/apis/odsp-client/odspmember-interface#email-propertysignature",
      "name": "/docs/apis/odsp-client/odspmember-interface#name-propertysignature",
      "userId": "/docs/apis/odsp-client/odspmember-interface#userid-propertysignature"
    }
  },
  "package": "@fluid-experimental/odsp-client",
  "unscopedPackageName": "odsp-client"
}

[//]: # (Do not edit this file. It is automatically generated by @fluidtools/api-markdown-documenter.)

Since ODSP provides user names and email for all of its members, we extend the _@fluidframework/protocol-definitions\#IMember_ interface to include this service-specific value. It will be returned for all audience members connected.

WARNING: This API is provided as a beta preview and may change without notice. Use at your own risk.

## Signature {#odspmember-signature}

```typescript
export interface OdspMember extends IMember
```

**Extends:** [IMember](/docs/apis/fluid-static/imember-interface)

## Properties

<table class="table table-striped table-hover">
  <thead>
    <tr>
      <th>
        Property
      </th>
      <th>
        Alerts
      </th>
      <th>
        Type
      </th>
      <th>
        Description
      </th>
    </tr>
  </thead>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td>
        <a href='/docs/apis/odsp-client/odspmember-interface#email-propertysignature'>email</a>
      </td>
      <td>
        <code>BETA</code>
      </td>
      <td>
        <span>string</span>
      </td>
      <td>
        The user's email
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>
        <a href='/docs/apis/odsp-client/odspmember-interface#name-propertysignature'>name</a>
      </td>
      <td>
        <code>BETA</code>
      </td>
      <td>
        <span>string</span>
      </td>
      <td>
        The user's name
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>
        <a href='/docs/apis/odsp-client/odspmember-interface#userid-propertysignature'>userId</a>
      </td>
      <td>
        <code>BETA</code>
      </td>
      <td>
        <span>string</span>
      </td>
      <td>
        The object ID (oid) for the user, unique among each individual user connecting to the session.
      </td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

## Property Details

### email (BETA) {#email-propertysignature}

The user's email

WARNING: This API is provided as a beta preview and may change without notice. Use at your own risk.

#### Signature {#email-signature}

```typescript
email: string;
```

### name (BETA) {#name-propertysignature}

The user's name

WARNING: This API is provided as a beta preview and may change without notice. Use at your own risk.

#### Signature {#name-signature}

```typescript
name: string;
```

### userId (BETA) {#userid-propertysignature}

The object ID (oid) for the user, unique among each individual user connecting to the session.

WARNING: This API is provided as a beta preview and may change without notice. Use at your own risk.

#### Signature {#userid-signature}

```typescript
userId: string;
```
