{
  "title": "OdspConnectionConfig Interface",
  "summary": "Defines the necessary properties that will be applied to all containers created by an OdspClient instance. This includes callbacks for the authentication tokens required for ODSP.",
  "kind": "Interface",
  "members": {
    "PropertySignature": {
      "driveId": "/docs/apis/odsp-client/odspconnectionconfig-interface#driveid-propertysignature",
      "siteUrl": "/docs/apis/odsp-client/odspconnectionconfig-interface#siteurl-propertysignature",
      "tokenProvider": "/docs/apis/odsp-client/odspconnectionconfig-interface#tokenprovider-propertysignature"
    }
  },
  "package": "@fluid-experimental/odsp-client",
  "unscopedPackageName": "odsp-client"
}

[//]: # (Do not edit this file. It is automatically generated by @fluidtools/api-markdown-documenter.)

Defines the necessary properties that will be applied to all containers created by an OdspClient instance. This includes callbacks for the authentication tokens required for ODSP.

WARNING: This API is provided as a beta preview and may change without notice. Use at your own risk.

## Signature {#odspconnectionconfig-signature}

```typescript
export interface OdspConnectionConfig
```

## Properties

<table class="table table-striped table-hover">
  <thead>
    <tr>
      <th>
        Property
      </th>
      <th>
        Alerts
      </th>
      <th>
        Type
      </th>
      <th>
        Description
      </th>
    </tr>
  </thead>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td>
        <a href='/docs/apis/odsp-client/odspconnectionconfig-interface#driveid-propertysignature'>driveId</a>
      </td>
      <td>
        <code>BETA</code>
      </td>
      <td>
        <span>string</span>
      </td>
      <td>
        RaaS Drive Id of the tenant where Fluid containers are created
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>
        <a href='/docs/apis/odsp-client/odspconnectionconfig-interface#siteurl-propertysignature'>siteUrl</a>
      </td>
      <td>
        <code>BETA</code>
      </td>
      <td>
        <span>string</span>
      </td>
      <td>
        Site url representing ODSP resource location. It points to the specific SharePoint site where you can store and access the containers you create.
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>
        <a href='/docs/apis/odsp-client/odspconnectionconfig-interface#tokenprovider-propertysignature'>tokenProvider</a>
      </td>
      <td>
        <code>BETA</code>
      </td>
      <td>
        <span><a href='/docs/apis/odsp-client/iodsptokenprovider-interface'>IOdspTokenProvider</a></span>
      </td>
      <td>
        Instance that provides AAD endpoint tokens for Push and SharePoint
      </td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

## Property Details

### driveId (BETA) {#driveid-propertysignature}

RaaS Drive Id of the tenant where Fluid containers are created

WARNING: This API is provided as a beta preview and may change without notice. Use at your own risk.

#### Signature {#driveid-signature}

```typescript
driveId: string;
```

### siteUrl (BETA) {#siteurl-propertysignature}

Site url representing ODSP resource location. It points to the specific SharePoint site where you can store and access the containers you create.

WARNING: This API is provided as a beta preview and may change without notice. Use at your own risk.

#### Signature {#siteurl-signature}

```typescript
siteUrl: string;
```

### tokenProvider (BETA) {#tokenprovider-propertysignature}

Instance that provides AAD endpoint tokens for Push and SharePoint

WARNING: This API is provided as a beta preview and may change without notice. Use at your own risk.

#### Signature {#tokenprovider-signature}

```typescript
tokenProvider: IOdspTokenProvider;
```
