{
  "title": "OdspContainerServices Interface",
  "summary": "OdspContainerServices is returned by the OdspClient alongside a FluidContainer. It holds the functionality specifically tied to the ODSP service, and how the data stored in the FluidContainer is persisted in the backend and consumed by users. Any functionality regarding how the data is handled within the FluidContainer itself, i.e. which data objects or DDSes to use, will not be included here but rather on the FluidContainer class itself.",
  "kind": "Interface",
  "members": {
    "PropertySignature": {
      "audience": "/docs/apis/odsp-client/odspcontainerservices-interface#audience-propertysignature"
    }
  },
  "package": "@fluid-experimental/odsp-client",
  "unscopedPackageName": "odsp-client"
}

[//]: # (Do not edit this file. It is automatically generated by @fluidtools/api-markdown-documenter.)

OdspContainerServices is returned by the OdspClient alongside a FluidContainer. It holds the functionality specifically tied to the ODSP service, and how the data stored in the FluidContainer is persisted in the backend and consumed by users. Any functionality regarding how the data is handled within the FluidContainer itself, i.e. which data objects or DDSes to use, will not be included here but rather on the FluidContainer class itself.

WARNING: This API is provided as a beta preview and may change without notice. Use at your own risk.

## Signature {#odspcontainerservices-signature}

```typescript
export interface OdspContainerServices
```

## Properties

<table class="table table-striped table-hover">
  <thead>
    <tr>
      <th>
        Property
      </th>
      <th>
        Alerts
      </th>
      <th>
        Type
      </th>
      <th>
        Description
      </th>
    </tr>
  </thead>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td>
        <a href='/docs/apis/odsp-client/odspcontainerservices-interface#audience-propertysignature'>audience</a>
      </td>
      <td>
        <code>BETA</code>
      </td>
      <td>
        <span><a href='/docs/apis/odsp-client#iodspaudience-typealias'>IOdspAudience</a></span>
      </td>
      <td>
        Provides an object that facilitates obtaining information about users present in the Fluid session, as well as listeners for roster changes triggered by users joining or leaving the session.
      </td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

## Property Details

### audience (BETA) {#audience-propertysignature}

Provides an object that facilitates obtaining information about users present in the Fluid session, as well as listeners for roster changes triggered by users joining or leaving the session.

WARNING: This API is provided as a beta preview and may change without notice. Use at your own risk.

#### Signature {#audience-signature}

```typescript
audience: IOdspAudience;
```
