{
  "title": "IDataStore Interface",
  "summary": "Exposes some functionality/features of a data store: - Handle to the data store's entryPoint - Fluid router for the data store - Can be assigned an alias",
  "kind": "Interface",
  "members": {
    "PropertySignature": {
      "entryPoint": "/docs/apis/runtime-definitions\\idatastore-interface#entrypoint-propertysignature"
    },
    "MethodSignature": {
      "trySetAlias": "/docs/apis/runtime-definitions\\idatastore-interface#trysetalias-methodsignature"
    }
  },
  "package": "@fluidframework/runtime-definitions",
  "unscopedPackageName": "runtime-definitions"
}

[//]: # (Do not edit this file. It is automatically generated by @fluidtools/api-markdown-documenter.)

[Packages](/docs/apis/) &gt; [@fluidframework/runtime-definitions](/docs/apis/runtime-definitions) &gt; [IDataStore](/docs/apis/runtime-definitions\idatastore-interface)

Exposes some functionality/features of a data store: - Handle to the data store's entryPoint - Fluid router for the data store - Can be assigned an alias

## Signature {#idatastore-signature}

```typescript
export interface IDataStore extends IFluidRouter 
```
<b>Extends:</b> [IFluidRouter](/docs/apis/core-interfaces\ifluidrouter-interface)

## Properties

<table class="table table-striped table-hover">
  <thead>
    <tr>
      <th scope="col">
        Property
      </th>
      <th scope="col">
        Modifiers
      </th>
      <th scope="col">
        Type
      </th>
      <th scope="col">
        Description
      </th>
    </tr>
  </thead>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td>
        <a href='/docs/apis/runtime-definitions\idatastore-interface#entrypoint-propertysignature'>entryPoint</a>
      </td>
      <td>
        <code>optional</code>
      </td>
      <td>
        <a href='/docs/apis/core-interfaces\ifluidhandle-interface'>IFluidHandle</a><<a href='/docs/apis/core-interfaces#fluidobject-typealias'>FluidObject</a>>
      </td>
      <td>
        Exposes a handle to the root object / entryPoint of the data store. Use this as the primary way of interacting with it. If this property is undefined (meaning that exposing the entryPoint hasn't been implemented in a particular scenario) fall back to the current approach of requesting the root object through the request pattern.
      </td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

## Methods

<table class="table table-striped table-hover">
  <thead>
    <tr>
      <th scope="col">
        Method
      </th>
      <th scope="col">
        Return Type
      </th>
      <th scope="col">
        Description
      </th>
    </tr>
  </thead>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td>
        <a href='/docs/apis/runtime-definitions\idatastore-interface#trysetalias-methodsignature'>trySetAlias</a>
      </td>
      <td>
        Promise<<a href='/docs/apis/runtime-definitions#aliasresult-typealias'>AliasResult</a>>
      </td>
      <td>
        Attempt to assign an alias to the datastore. If the operation succeeds, the datastore can be referenced by the supplied alias and will not be garbage collected.
      </td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

## Property Details

### entryPoint {#entrypoint-propertysignature}

Exposes a handle to the root object / entryPoint of the data store. Use this as the primary way of interacting with it. If this property is undefined (meaning that exposing the entryPoint hasn't been implemented in a particular scenario) fall back to the current approach of requesting the root object through the request pattern.

#### Signature {#entrypoint-signature}

```typescript
readonly entryPoint?: IFluidHandle<FluidObject>;
```

#### Remarks {#entrypoint-remarks}

The plan is that eventually the data store will stop providing IFluidRouter functionality, this property will become non-optional and return an IFluidHandle (no undefined) and will become the only way to access the data store's entryPoint.

## Method Details

### trySetAlias {#trysetalias-methodsignature}

Attempt to assign an alias to the datastore. If the operation succeeds, the datastore can be referenced by the supplied alias and will not be garbage collected.

#### Signature {#trysetalias-signature}

```typescript
trySetAlias(alias: string): Promise<AliasResult>;
```

#### Parameters {#trysetalias-parameters}

<table class="table table-striped table-hover">
  <thead>
    <tr>
      <th scope="col">
        Parameter
      </th>
      <th scope="col">
        Type
      </th>
      <th scope="col">
        Description
      </th>
    </tr>
  </thead>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td>
        alias
      </td>
      <td>
        string
      </td>
      <td>
        Given alias for this datastore.
      </td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

#### Returns {#trysetalias-returns}

<b>Return type:</b> Promise&lt;[AliasResult](/docs/apis/runtime-definitions#aliasresult-typealias)<!-- -->&gt;