{"kind":"Interface","title":"ISummarizerNodeConfig Interface","members":{"PropertySignature":{"canReuseHandle":"/docs/apis/runtime-definitions/isummarizernodeconfig#canreusehandle-PropertySignature","throwOnFailure":"/docs/apis/runtime-definitions/isummarizernodeconfig#throwonfailure-PropertySignature"}},"package":"@fluidframework/runtime-definitions","unscopedPackageName":"runtime-definitions"}

[//]: # (Do not edit this file. It is automatically generated by API Documenter.)

[Packages](/docs/apis/) &gt; [@fluidframework/runtime-definitions](/docs/apis/runtime-definitions) &gt; [ISummarizerNodeConfig](/docs/apis/runtime-definitions/isummarizernodeconfig)

<b>Signature:</b>

```typescript
export interface ISummarizerNodeConfig 
```

## Properties

<table class="table table-striped table-hover property-list">
<caption>List of properties on this interface</caption>
  <thead>
    <tr>
     <th scope="col">Property</th>
 <th scope="col">Type</th>
 <th scope="col">Description</th>
    </tr>
  </thead>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td><a href='/docs/apis/runtime-definitions/isummarizernodeconfig#canreusehandle-PropertySignature'>canReuseHandle</a></td>
      <td>boolean</td>
      <td>True to reuse previous handle when unchanged since last acked summary. Defaults to true.</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td><a href='/docs/apis/runtime-definitions/isummarizernodeconfig#throwonfailure-PropertySignature'>throwOnFailure</a></td>
      <td>true</td>
      <td>True to always stop execution on error during summarize, or false to attempt creating a summary that is a pointer ot the last acked summary plus outstanding ops in case of internal summarize failure. Defaults to false.<!-- -->BUG BUG: Default to true while we investigate problem with differential summaries</td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

<hr><div id=interface-details>

## Property Details {#properties-details}

### canReuseHandle {#canreusehandle-PropertySignature}

True to reuse previous handle when unchanged since last acked summary. Defaults to true.

<b>Signature:</b>

```typescript
readonly canReuseHandle?: boolean;
```

### throwOnFailure {#throwonfailure-PropertySignature}

True to always stop execution on error during summarize, or false to attempt creating a summary that is a pointer ot the last acked summary plus outstanding ops in case of internal summarize failure. Defaults to false.

BUG BUG: Default to true while we investigate problem with differential summaries

<b>Signature:</b>

```typescript
readonly throwOnFailure?: true;
```

</div>
