{"kind":"Interface","title":"ISummaryTreeWithStats Interface","summary":"Represents the summary tree for a node along with the statistics for that tree. For example, for a given data store, it contains the data for data store along with a subtree for each of its DDS. Any component that implements IChannelContext, IFluidDataStoreChannel or extends SharedObject will be taking part of the summarization process.","members":{"PropertySignature":{"stats":"/docs/apis/runtime-definitions/isummarytreewithstats#stats-PropertySignature","summary":"/docs/apis/runtime-definitions/isummarytreewithstats#summary-PropertySignature"}},"package":"@fluidframework/runtime-definitions","unscopedPackageName":"runtime-definitions"}

[//]: # (Do not edit this file. It is automatically generated by API Documenter.)

[Packages](/docs/apis/) &gt; [@fluidframework/runtime-definitions](/docs/apis/runtime-definitions) &gt; [ISummaryTreeWithStats](/docs/apis/runtime-definitions/isummarytreewithstats)

Represents the summary tree for a node along with the statistics for that tree. For example, for a given data store, it contains the data for data store along with a subtree for each of its DDS. Any component that implements IChannelContext, IFluidDataStoreChannel or extends SharedObject will be taking part of the summarization process.

<b>Signature:</b>

```typescript
export interface ISummaryTreeWithStats 
```

## Properties

<table class="table table-striped table-hover property-list">
<caption>List of properties on this interface</caption>
  <thead>
    <tr>
     <th scope="col">Property</th>
 <th scope="col">Type</th>
 <th scope="col">Description</th>
    </tr>
  </thead>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td><a href='/docs/apis/runtime-definitions/isummarytreewithstats#stats-PropertySignature'>stats</a></td>
      <td><a href='/docs/apis/runtime-definitions/isummarystats'>ISummaryStats</a></td>
      <td>Represents an aggregation of node counts and blob sizes associated to the current summary information</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td><a href='/docs/apis/runtime-definitions/isummarytreewithstats#summary-PropertySignature'>summary</a></td>
      <td><a href='/docs/apis/protocol-definitions/isummarytree'>ISummaryTree</a></td>
      <td>A recursive data structure that will be converted to a snapshot tree and uploaded to the backend.</td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

<hr><div id=interface-details>

## Property Details {#properties-details}

### stats {#stats-PropertySignature}

Represents an aggregation of node counts and blob sizes associated to the current summary information

<b>Signature:</b>

```typescript
stats: ISummaryStats;
```

### summary {#summary-PropertySignature}

A recursive data structure that will be converted to a snapshot tree and uploaded to the backend.

<b>Signature:</b>

```typescript
summary: ISummaryTree;
```

</div>
