docs/docs/start/tree-start.mdx, before:

---
title: SharedTree Quick Start
sidebar_position: 2
---

import { ApiLink } from "@site/src/components/shortLinks";

`SharedTree` is a [distributed data structure](../data-structures/overview.mdx) that looks and feels like simple JavaScript objects with a type safe wrapper.
This guide will walk you through the basics of creating, configuring, and interacting with a `SharedTree` in your application.

## Creating a Tree

A `SharedTree` can be created by defining a `ContainerSchema` with an initial object of type `SharedTree` and using this schema to create and load your container.
This example creates a container using an Azure specific client.

**note**: `enableRuntimeIdCompressor` must be enabled in the <ApiLink packageName="container-runtime" apiName="IContainerRuntimeOptions" apiType="interface">container runtime options</ApiLink> in order to use `SharedTree`

See more info on creating and loading containers [here](../build/containers.mdx#creating-a-container).

```typescript
import { AzureClient } from "@fluidframework/azure-client";
import { ContainerSchema, SharedTree } from "fluid-framework";

// clientProps specifies connection details and is defined by the app author
const client = new AzureClient(clientProps);

const containerSchema: ContainerSchema = {
	initialObjects: {
		appData: SharedTree,
	},
};

const { container } = await client.createContainer(containerSchema, "2");
```

After creating a `SharedTree`, you need to create a `TreeView`.
A `TreeView` provides the interface for reading and editing data on the `SharedTree` using a particular schema.
This is done by calling `viewWith` on the `SharedTree` with your tree configuration.

```typescript
const treeConfiguration = new TreeViewConfiguration({ schema: TodoList });

const appData = container.initialObjects.appData.viewWith(treeConfiguration);
```

The tree configuration takes in a schema for the root of the tree which will need to be defined by your application.
This example uses the `TodoList` schema, which we define in the next section, as the root schema.

## Defining a Schema

A schema outlines the structure and types of data that your tree will manage, providing useful guarantees about the shape your data will take.
It is used to generate TypeScript types to make working with your data more ergonomic.
The data also behaves like JS objects which makes it easy to use in external libraries or systems.

To define a schema, first create a `SchemaFactory` with a unique string to use as the namespace.

```typescript
const schemaFactory = new SchemaFactory("some-schema-id-prob-a-uuid");
```

`SchemaFactory` provides some methods for specifying collection types including `object()`, `array()`, and `map()`; and five primitive data types for specifying leaf nodes: `boolean`, `string`, `number`, `null`, and `handle`.
See [schema definition](../data-structures/tree.mdx) for more info on the provided types.

You can define a schema by extending one of the built-in object types.
As an example, let's write a schema for a todo list:

```typescript
class TodoList extends schemaFactory.object("TodoList", {
	title: schemaFactory.string,
	items: todoItems,
});

class TodoItems extends schemaFactory.array("TodoItems", TodoItem);

class TodoItem extends schemaFactory.object("TodoItem", {
	description: schemaFactory.string,
	isCompleted: schemaFactory.boolean,
});
```

This creates a `TodoList` class that is an object schema with two fields, `title` and `items`. `title` is a leaf node of type `string` while `items` stores `TodoItems` which is an array of `TodoItem`.
`TodoItem` is an object with two primitive values, `description` and `isCompleted`.

Schemas can also be defined using plain old JavaScript object (POJO) mode.
Generally, you should prefer customizable mode.
See <ApiLink packageName="tree" apiName="SchemaFactory" apiType="class">the API docs</ApiLink> for more info on the differences between the two modes.

## Initializing the Tree

Once your view is created, you need to initialize it with some data.
This can only be done once after the tree is created and the data you initialize your tree with must conform to the schema that you provided.

This is how we would initialize our todo list:

```typescript
appData.initialize(
	new TodoList({
		title: "todo list",
		items: [
			new TodoItem({
				description: "first item",
				isComplete: true,
			}),
		],
	}),
);
```

## Reading Data From Your Tree

Data can be read from the tree using the `root` property of the `TreeView` that you obtained through the `viewWith` method.
Since the root of our tree is an object schema, its data can be accessed like a regular JavaScript object.

If `TodoList` is the root schema of your tree, you can access the todo list data like this:

```typescript
const todoListTitle = appData.root.title;
const firstItem = appData.root.items[0];
```

You can also iterate through the actual items, here's an example of how to use the data you're reading in a JSX component:

```typescript
<li>
	{appData.root.items.map((item) =>
		<ul>{item.description}</ul>
	)}
</li>
```

When using the data in your tree, it's important to listen to the change events provided by the tree so that you can make any necessary updates to your application.
This is how you can use React hooks to listen to the `nodeChanged` event:

```typescript
const [itemCount, setCount] = useState(appData.root.items.length);

useEffect(() => {
	const unsubscribe = Tree.on(appData.root.items, "nodeChanged", () => {
		setCount(appData.root.items.length);
	});
	return unsubscribe;
}, []);
```

`nodeChanged` fires whenever one or more properties of the specified node change while `treeChanged` also fires whenever any node in its subtree changes.

<ApiLink packageName="tree" apiName="TreeChangeEvents" apiType="interface">the API</ApiLink> docs for more details.

## Editing Tree Data

There are built-in editing methods for each of the provided schema types.
For example, if your data is in an array, you can add a new todo item at index 3 like this:

```typescript
appData.root.items.insertAt(
	3,
	new TodoItem({
		description: "new item",
		isComplete: false,
	}),
);
```

The schema types can also be edited using the assignment operator like this:

```typescript
appData.root.title = "chores";
```

Editing methods can also be defined on the schema classes defined.
This allows you to write methods that are more suited to your app's specific needs.

```typescript
class TodoList extends schemaFactory.object("TodoList", {
	title: schemaFactory.string,
	items: TodoItems,
}) {
	public removeFirst = () => {
		if (this.length > 0) this.removeAt(0);
	};
}
```

These methods are designed to merge well in collaborative settings without you having to think much about it.
See [schema definition](../data-structures/tree.mdx) for more details on the built-in editing methods.
You can also read more about how these editing operations work in collaborative settings [here](https://github.com/microsoft/FluidFramework/blob/main/packages/dds/tree/docs/user-facing/merge-semantics.md).

### Grouping Edits into Transactions

Edits can be grouped into transaction using the `Tree.runTransaction()` API.
It can be useful to group edits because a transaction is equivalent to a single unit when undoing and redoing.

```typescript
Tree.runTransaction(myNode, (node) => {
    // Make multiple changes to the tree.
    // These can be changes to the referenced node but are not limited to that scope.

    if ( /* Something went wrong, abort! */ ) {
		return Tree.runTransaction.rollback;
	}
})
```

See more information on transactions [here](../data-structures/tree.mdx).

### Undoing and Redoing Edits

Calling `revert` on a `Revertible` will revert the associated edit on the associated view.

A revertible can be obtained by listening to the `commitApplied` event and calling the `getRevertible` callback provided.
The `kind` property on `CommitMetadata` tells you if a commit is the result of a normal edit, an undo, or a redo.
This aids in managing separate undo and redo stacks.
Here is a simple example of how to do so using the provided APIs:

```typescript
const undoStack = [];
const redoStack = [];

useEffect(() => {
	const unsubscribe = appData.events.on(
		"commitApplied",
		(commit: CommitMetadata, getRevertible?: RevertibleFactory) => {
			if (getRevertible === undefined) {
				return;
			}
			const revertible = getRevertible();
			if (commit.kind === CommitKind.Undo) {
				redoStack.push(revertible);
			} else {
				if (commit.kind === CommitKind.Default) {
					// clear redo stack
					for (const redo of redoStack) {
						redo.dispose();
					}
					redoStack.length = 0;
				}
				undoStack.push(revertible);
			}
		},
	);
	return unsubscribe;
}, []);
```

Note that any `Revertible`s obtained should be disposed of by the app author in order to free up the resources that are required to revert an edit.

See [this blog post](https://devblogs.microsoft.com/microsoft365dev/fluid-framework-undo-redo-and-transactions-in-sharedtree/) or [undo redo support](../data-structures/tree.mdx) for more information.

Commit message:

docs(tree): reorganize shared tree docs (#23349)
- creates and sets up a folder for tree docs in preparation for
splitting the main tree docs into more specific sections
- moves the installation section to the quick start 
- dedupes the creation/initialization sections of the tree docs
- fixes some links

docs/docs/start/tree-start.mdx, after:

---
title: SharedTree Quick Start
sidebar_position: 2
---

import { ApiLink } from "@site/src/components/shortLinks";

`SharedTree` is a [distributed data structure](../data-structures/overview.mdx) that looks and feels like simple JavaScript objects with a type safe wrapper.
This guide will walk you through the basics of creating, configuring, and interacting with a `SharedTree` in your application.

## Installing SharedTree

The `SharedTree` library can be found in the [fluid-framework](https://www.npmjs.com/package/fluid-framework) package (version 2.x).

To get started, run the following from a terminal in your project folder:

```bash
npm install fluid-framework@latest
```

## Creating a Tree

A `SharedTree` can be created by defining a `ContainerSchema` with an initial object of type `SharedTree` and using this schema to create and load your container.
This example creates a container using an Azure specific client.

**note**: `enableRuntimeIdCompressor` must be enabled in the <ApiLink packageName="container-runtime" apiName="IContainerRuntimeOptions" apiType="interface">container runtime options</ApiLink> in order to use `SharedTree`

See more info on creating and loading containers [here](../build/containers.mdx#creating-a-container).

```typescript
import { AzureClient } from "@fluidframework/azure-client";
import { ContainerSchema, SharedTree } from "fluid-framework";

// clientProps specifies connection details and is defined by the app author
const client = new AzureClient(clientProps);

const containerSchema: ContainerSchema = {
	initialObjects: {
		appData: SharedTree,
	},
};

const { container } = await client.createContainer(containerSchema, "2");
```

After creating a `SharedTree`, you need to create a `TreeView`.
A `TreeView` provides the interface for reading and editing data on the `SharedTree` using a particular schema.
This is done by calling `viewWith` on the `SharedTree` with your tree configuration.

```typescript
const treeConfiguration = new TreeViewConfiguration({ schema: TodoList });

const appData = container.initialObjects.appData.viewWith(treeConfiguration);
```

The tree configuration takes in a schema for the root of the tree which will need to be defined by your application.
This example uses the `TodoList` schema, which we define in the next section, as the root schema.

## Defining a Schema

A schema outlines the structure and types of data that your tree will manage, providing useful guarantees about the shape your data will take.
It is used to generate TypeScript types to make working with your data more ergonomic.
The data also behaves like JS objects which makes it easy to use in external libraries or systems.

To define a schema, first create a `SchemaFactory` with a unique string to use as the namespace.

```typescript
const schemaFactory = new SchemaFactory("some-schema-id-prob-a-uuid");
```

`SchemaFactory` provides some methods for specifying collection types including `object()`, `array()`, and `map()`; and five primitive data types for specifying leaf nodes: `boolean`, `string`, `number`, `null`, and `handle`.
See [schema definition](../data-structures/tree/index.mdx#schema-definition) for more info on the provided types.

You can define a schema by extending one of the built-in object types.
As an example, let's write a schema for a todo list:

```typescript
class TodoList extends schemaFactory.object("TodoList", {
	title: schemaFactory.string,
	items: todoItems,
});

class TodoItems extends schemaFactory.array("TodoItems", TodoItem);

class TodoItem extends schemaFactory.object("TodoItem", {
	description: schemaFactory.string,
	isCompleted: schemaFactory.boolean,
});
```

This creates a `TodoList` class that is an object schema with two fields, `title` and `items`. `title` is a leaf node of type `string` while `items` stores `TodoItems` which is an array of `TodoItem`.
`TodoItem` is an object with two primitive values, `description` and `isCompleted`.

Schemas can also be defined using plain old JavaScript object (POJO) mode.
Generally, you should prefer customizable mode.
See <ApiLink packageName="tree" apiName="SchemaFactory" apiType="class">the API docs</ApiLink> for more info on the differences between the two modes.

## Initializing the Tree

Once your view is created, you need to initialize it with some data.
This can only be done once after the tree is created and the data you initialize your tree with must conform to the schema that you provided.

This is how we would initialize our todo list:

```typescript
appData.initialize(
	new TodoList({
		title: "todo list",
		items: [
			new TodoItem({
				description: "first item",
				isComplete: true,
			}),
		],
	}),
);
```

## Reading Data From Your Tree

Data can be read from the tree using the `root` property of the `TreeView` that you obtained through the `viewWith` method.
Since the root of our tree is an object schema, its data can be accessed like a regular JavaScript object.

If `TodoList` is the root schema of your tree, you can access the todo list data like this:

```typescript
const todoListTitle = appData.root.title;
const firstItem = appData.root.items[0];
```

You can also iterate through the actual items, here's an example of how to use the data you're reading in a JSX component:

```typescript
<li>
	{appData.root.items.map((item) =>
		<ul>{item.description}</ul>
	)}
</li>
```

When using the data in your tree, it's important to listen to the change events provided by the tree so that you can make any necessary updates to your application.
This is how you can use React hooks to listen to the `nodeChanged` event:

```typescript
const [itemCount, setCount] = useState(appData.root.items.length);

useEffect(() => {
	const unsubscribe = Tree.on(appData.root.items, "nodeChanged", () => {
		setCount(appData.root.items.length);
	});
	return unsubscribe;
}, []);
```

`nodeChanged` fires whenever one or more properties of the specified node change while `treeChanged` also fires whenever any node in its subtree changes.

See <ApiLink packageName="tree" apiName="TreeChangeEvents" apiType="interface">the API</ApiLink> docs for more details.

## Editing Tree Data

There are built-in editing methods for each of the provided schema types.
For example, if your data is in an array, you can add a new todo item at index 3 like this:

```typescript
appData.root.items.insertAt(
	3,
	new TodoItem({
		description: "new item",
		isComplete: false,
	}),
);
```

The schema types can also be edited using the assignment operator like this:

```typescript
appData.root.title = "chores";
```

Editing methods can also be defined on the schema classes defined.
This allows you to write methods that are more suited to your app's specific needs.

```typescript
class TodoList extends schemaFactory.object("TodoList", {
	title: schemaFactory.string,
	items: TodoItems,
}) {
	public removeFirst = () => {
		if (this.length > 0) this.removeAt(0);
	};
}
```

These methods are designed to merge well in collaborative settings without you having to think much about it.
See [schema definition](../data-structures/tree/index.mdx#schema-definition) for more details on the built-in editing methods.
You can also read more about how these editing operations work in collaborative settings [here](https://github.com/microsoft/FluidFramework/blob/main/packages/dds/tree/docs/user-facing/merge-semantics.md).

### Grouping Edits into Transactions

Edits can be grouped into transaction using the `Tree.runTransaction()` API.
It can be useful to group edits because a transaction is equivalent to a single unit when undoing and redoing.

```typescript
Tree.runTransaction(myNode, (node) => {
    // Make multiple changes to the tree.
    // These can be changes to the referenced node but are not limited to that scope.

    if ( /* Something went wrong, abort! */ ) {
		return Tree.runTransaction.rollback;
	}
})
```

See more information on transactions [here](../data-structures/tree/index.mdx#transactions).

### Undoing and Redoing Edits

Calling `revert` on a `Revertible` will revert the associated edit on the associated view.

A revertible can be obtained by listening to the `commitApplied` event and calling the `getRevertible` callback provided.
The `kind` property on `CommitMetadata` tells you if a commit is the result of a normal edit, an undo, or a redo.
This aids in managing separate undo and redo stacks.
Here is a simple example of how to do so using the provided APIs:

```typescript
const undoStack = [];
const redoStack = [];

useEffect(() => {
	const unsubscribe = appData.events.on(
		"commitApplied",
		(commit: CommitMetadata, getRevertible?: RevertibleFactory) => {
			if (getRevertible === undefined) {
				return;
			}
			const revertible = getRevertible();
			if (commit.kind === CommitKind.Undo) {
				redoStack.push(revertible);
			} else {
				if (commit.kind === CommitKind.Default) {
					// clear redo stack
					for (const redo of redoStack) {
						redo.dispose();
					}
					redoStack.length = 0;
				}
				undoStack.push(revertible);
			}
		},
	);
	return unsubscribe;
}, []);
```

Note that any `Revertible`s obtained should be disposed of by the app author in order to free up the resources that are required to revert an edit.

See [this blog post](https://devblogs.microsoft.com/microsoft365dev/fluid-framework-undo-redo-and-transactions-in-sharedtree/) or [undo redo support](../data-structures/tree/index.mdx) for more information.
