docs/content/docs/glossary.md, before:

---
title: Glossary
aliases:
  - "/start/glossary/"

---

## Aqueduct

The `@fluidframework/aqueduct` package is a library for building Fluid objects and Fluid containers within the Fluid
Framework. Its goal is to provide a thin base layer over the existing Fluid Framework interfaces that allows developers
to get started quickly. [Learn more.]({{< relref "aqueduct.md" >}})

## Attached

A Fluid container can be *attached* or *detached*. An attached container is connected to a Fluid service and can be
loaded by other clients. Also see [Detached](#detached).

## Code loader

If your app is bundled separately from your container code, Fluid can use a code loader to download
and load the container code bundle dynamically.

## Container

The container is your application's entry point to the Fluid Framework. It runs your container code and is
the object through which you'll retrieve your Fluid objects.

## Container code

You'll write container code to define which Fluid objects your scenario uses and how you'll access them.

## DataObject

DataObjects are higher-level Fluid objects, compared to distributed data structures, which are low-level Fluid objects.
DataObjects are used to organize distributed data structures into semantically meaningful groupings for your scenario,
as well as providing an API surface to your data.

## Detached

A Fluid container can be *attached* or *detached*. A detached container is not connected to a Fluid service and cannot
be loaded by other clients. Newly created containers begin in a detached state, which allows developers to add initial
data if needed before attaching the container. Also see [Attached](#attached).

## Distributed data structures (DDSes)

DDSes are the data structures Fluid Framework provides for storing collaborative data. As collaborators modify the data,
the changes will be reflected to all other collaborators.

## Fluid loader

Responsible for connecting to a Fluid service and loading a Fluid container.

## Fluid object

Any JavaScript object that implements Fluid feature interfaces.

## Fluid service

A service endpoint that is responsible for receiving, processing, storing, and broadcasting operations.

## Fluid service driver

Client code responsible for connecting to the Fluid service.

## Shared object

A distributed data structure (DDS) or `DataObject`.

## URL resolver

Fluid's API surface makes use of URLs, for example in the `Loader`'s `resolve()` method and `Container`'s `request()`
method.  The URL resolver is used to interpret these URLs for use with the Fluid service.

Commit message:

implement term change 'Fluid object' => 'shared object'

docs/content/docs/glossary.md, after:

---
title: Glossary
aliases:
  - "/start/glossary/"

---

## Aqueduct

The `@fluidframework/aqueduct` package is a library for building shared objects and Fluid containers within the Fluid
Framework. Its goal is to provide a thin base layer over the existing Fluid Framework interfaces that allows developers
to get started quickly. [Learn more.]({{< relref "aqueduct.md" >}})

## Attached

A Fluid container can be *attached* or *detached*. An attached container is connected to a Fluid service and can be
loaded by other clients. Also see [Detached](#detached).

## Code loader

If your app is bundled separately from your container code, Fluid can use a code loader to download
and load the container code bundle dynamically.

## Container

The container is your application's entry point to the Fluid Framework. It runs your container code and is
the object through which you'll retrieve your shared objects.

## Container code

You'll write container code to define which shared objects your scenario uses and how you'll access them.

## Data Object

Data Objects are higher-level shared objects, compared to distributed data structures, which are low-level shared objects.
DataObjects are used to organize distributed data structures into semantically meaningful groupings for your scenario,
as well as providing an API surface to your data.

## Detached

A Fluid container can be *attached* or *detached*. A detached container is not connected to a Fluid service and cannot
be loaded by other clients. Newly created containers begin in a detached state, which allows developers to add initial
data if needed before attaching the container. Also see [Attached](#attached).

## Distributed data structures (DDSes)

DDSes are the data structures Fluid Framework provides for storing collaborative data. As collaborators modify the data,
the changes will be reflected to all other collaborators.

## Fluid loader

Responsible for connecting to a Fluid service and loading a Fluid container.

## Fluid object

Any JavaScript object that implements Fluid feature interfaces.

## Fluid service

A service endpoint that is responsible for receiving, processing, storing, and broadcasting operations.

## Fluid service driver

Client code responsible for connecting to the Fluid service.

## Shared object

A distributed data structure (DDS) or Data Object.

## URL resolver

Fluid's API surface makes use of URLs, for example in the `Loader`'s `resolve()` method and `Container`'s `request()`
method.  The URL resolver is used to interpret these URLs for use with the Fluid service.
