{"kind":"Interface","title":"EditLogSummary Interface","summary":"Information used to populate an edit log. In 0.1.1, this is a persisted type only for `EditLogSummary<CompressedChangeInternal, FluidEditHandle>`<!-- -->, where calling `FluidEditHandle.get` returns an array buffer of compressed `editChunk` contents. The type is parameterized to avoid nearly identical type definitions for uncompressed forms of the edit log, and abstracting away the fact that handle fetching needs to invoke decompression.","members":{"PropertySignature":{"editChunks":"/docs/apis/tree/editlogsummary#editchunks-PropertySignature","editIds":"/docs/apis/tree/editlogsummary#editids-PropertySignature"}},"package":"@fluid-experimental/tree","unscopedPackageName":"tree"}

[//]: # (Do not edit this file. It is automatically generated by API Documenter.)

[Packages](/docs/apis/) &gt; [@fluid-experimental/tree](/docs/apis/tree) &gt; [EditLogSummary](/docs/apis/tree/editlogsummary)

Information used to populate an edit log. In 0.1.1, this is a persisted type only for `EditLogSummary<CompressedChangeInternal, FluidEditHandle>`<!-- -->, where calling `FluidEditHandle.get` returns an array buffer of compressed `editChunk` contents. The type is parameterized to avoid nearly identical type definitions for uncompressed forms of the edit log, and abstracting away the fact that handle fetching needs to invoke decompression.

<b>Signature:</b>

```typescript
export interface EditLogSummary<TChange, THandle> 
```

## Properties

<table class="table table-striped table-hover property-list">
<caption>List of properties on this interface</caption>
  <thead>
    <tr>
     <th scope="col">Property</th>
 <th scope="col">Type</th>
 <th scope="col">Description</th>
    </tr>
  </thead>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td><a href='/docs/apis/tree/editlogsummary#editchunks-PropertySignature'>editChunks</a></td>
      <td>readonly { readonly startRevision: number; readonly chunk: THandle | readonly <a href='/docs/apis/tree/editwithoutid'>EditWithoutId</a><TChange>[]; }[]</td>
      <td>A of list of serialized chunks and their corresponding keys. Start revision is the index of the first edit in the chunk in relation to the edit log.</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td><a href='/docs/apis/tree/editlogsummary#editids-PropertySignature'>editIds</a></td>
      <td>readonly <a href='/docs/apis/tree#editid-TypeAlias'>EditId</a>[]</td>
      <td>A list of edits IDs for all sequenced edits.</td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

<hr><div id=interface-details>

## Property Details {#properties-details}

### editChunks {#editchunks-PropertySignature}

A of list of serialized chunks and their corresponding keys. Start revision is the index of the first edit in the chunk in relation to the edit log.

<b>Signature:</b>

```typescript
readonly editChunks: readonly {
        readonly startRevision: number;
        readonly chunk: THandle | readonly EditWithoutId<TChange>[];
    }[];
```

### editIds {#editids-PropertySignature}

A list of edits IDs for all sequenced edits.

<b>Signature:</b>

```typescript
readonly editIds: readonly EditId[];
```

</div>
