{"kind":"Interface","title":"LogViewer Interface","summary":"Creates `RevisionView`<!-- -->s for the revisions in an `EditLog`","members":{"MethodSignature":{"getRevisionView":"/docs/apis/tree/logviewer#getrevisionview-MethodSignature","getRevisionViewInSession":"/docs/apis/tree/logviewer#getrevisionviewinsession-MethodSignature"}},"package":"@fluid-experimental/tree","unscopedPackageName":"tree"}

[//]: # (Do not edit this file. It is automatically generated by API Documenter.)

[Packages](/docs/apis/) &gt; [@fluid-experimental/tree](/docs/apis/tree) &gt; [LogViewer](/docs/apis/tree/logviewer)

Creates `RevisionView`<!-- -->s for the revisions in an `EditLog`

<b>Signature:</b>

```typescript
export interface LogViewer 
```

## Methods

<table class="table table-striped table-hover method-list">
<caption>List of methods on this interface</caption>
  <thead>
    <tr>
     <th scope="col">Method</th>
 <th scope="col">Description</th>
    </tr>
  </thead>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td><a href='/docs/apis/tree/logviewer#getrevisionview-MethodSignature'>getRevisionView(revision)</a></td>
      <td>Returns the <code>TreeView</code> output associated with the largest revision in <code>editLog</code> less than (but not equal to) the supplied revision.<!-- -->For example: - revision 0 returns the initialRevision. - revision 1 returns the output of editLog[0] (or initialRevision if there is no edit 0). - revision Number.POSITIVE_INFINITY returns the newest revision.</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td><a href='/docs/apis/tree/logviewer#getrevisionviewinsession-MethodSignature'>getRevisionViewInSession(revision)</a></td>
      <td>Returns the <code>TreeView</code> output associated with the largest revision in <code>editLog</code> less than (but not equal to) the supplied revision. Can only be used to retrieve revisions added during the current sessions.<!-- -->For example: - revision 0 returns the initialRevision. - revision 1 returns the output of editLog[0] (or initialRevision if there is no edit 0). - revision Number.POSITIVE_INFINITY returns the newest revision.</td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

<hr><div id=interface-details>

## Method Details {#methods-details}

### getRevisionView {#getrevisionview-MethodSignature}

Returns the `TreeView` output associated with the largest revision in `editLog` less than (but not equal to) the supplied revision.

For example: - revision 0 returns the initialRevision. - revision 1 returns the output of editLog\[0\] (or initialRevision if there is no edit 0). - revision Number.POSITIVE\_INFINITY returns the newest revision.

<b>Signature:</b>

```typescript
getRevisionView(revision: Revision): Promise<RevisionView>;
```

#### Parameters {#getrevisionview-MethodSignature-parameters}


<table class="table table-striped table-hover param-list">
<caption>List of parameters</caption>
  <thead>
    <tr>
     <th scope="col">Parameter</th>
 <th scope="col">Type</th>
 <th scope="col">Description</th>
    </tr>
  </thead>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td>revision</td>
      <td><a href='/docs/apis/tree#revision-TypeAlias'>Revision</a></td>
      <td></td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

### getRevisionViewInSession {#getrevisionviewinsession-MethodSignature}

Returns the `TreeView` output associated with the largest revision in `editLog` less than (but not equal to) the supplied revision. Can only be used to retrieve revisions added during the current sessions.

For example: - revision 0 returns the initialRevision. - revision 1 returns the output of editLog\[0\] (or initialRevision if there is no edit 0). - revision Number.POSITIVE\_INFINITY returns the newest revision.

<b>Signature:</b>

```typescript
getRevisionViewInSession(revision: Revision): RevisionView;
```

#### Parameters {#getrevisionviewinsession-MethodSignature-parameters}


<table class="table table-striped table-hover param-list">
<caption>List of parameters</caption>
  <thead>
    <tr>
     <th scope="col">Parameter</th>
 <th scope="col">Type</th>
 <th scope="col">Description</th>
    </tr>
  </thead>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td>revision</td>
      <td><a href='/docs/apis/tree#revision-TypeAlias'>Revision</a></td>
      <td></td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>


</div>
