{"kind":"Interface","title":"NodeData Interface","summary":"The fields required by a node in a tree","members":{"PropertySignature":{"definition":"/docs/apis/tree/nodedata#definition-PropertySignature","identifier":"/docs/apis/tree/nodedata#identifier-PropertySignature","payload":"/docs/apis/tree/nodedata#payload-PropertySignature"}},"package":"@fluid-experimental/tree","unscopedPackageName":"tree"}

[//]: # (Do not edit this file. It is automatically generated by API Documenter.)

[Packages](/docs/apis/) &gt; [@fluid-experimental/tree](/docs/apis/tree) &gt; [NodeData](/docs/apis/tree/nodedata)

The fields required by a node in a tree

<b>Signature:</b>

```typescript
export interface NodeData<TId> 
```

## Properties

<table class="table table-striped table-hover property-list">
<caption>List of properties on this interface</caption>
  <thead>
    <tr>
     <th scope="col">Property</th>
 <th scope="col">Type</th>
 <th scope="col">Description</th>
    </tr>
  </thead>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td><a href='/docs/apis/tree/nodedata#definition-PropertySignature'>definition</a></td>
      <td><a href='/docs/apis/tree#definition-TypeAlias'>Definition</a></td>
      <td>The meaning of this node. Provides contexts/semantics for this node and its content. Typically use to associate a node with metadata (including a schema) and source code (types, behaviors, etc).</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td><a href='/docs/apis/tree/nodedata#identifier-PropertySignature'>identifier</a></td>
      <td>TId</td>
      <td>Identifier which can be used to refer to this Node.</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td><a href='/docs/apis/tree/nodedata#payload-PropertySignature'>payload</a></td>
      <td><a href='/docs/apis/tree#payload-TypeAlias'>Payload</a></td>
      <td>A payload of arbitrary serializable data</td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

<hr><div id=interface-details>

## Property Details {#properties-details}

### definition {#definition-PropertySignature}

The meaning of this node. Provides contexts/semantics for this node and its content. Typically use to associate a node with metadata (including a schema) and source code (types, behaviors, etc).

<b>Signature:</b>

```typescript
readonly definition: Definition;
```

### identifier {#identifier-PropertySignature}

Identifier which can be used to refer to this Node.

<b>Signature:</b>

```typescript
readonly identifier: TId;
```

### payload {#payload-PropertySignature}

A payload of arbitrary serializable data

<b>Signature:</b>

```typescript
readonly payload?: Payload;
```

</div>
