{"kind":"Interface","title":"NodeIdGenerator Interface","summary":"An object which can generate node IDs","members":{"MethodSignature":{"generateNodeId":"/docs/apis/tree/nodeidgenerator#generatenodeid-MethodSignature"}},"package":"@fluid-experimental/tree","unscopedPackageName":"tree"}

[//]: # (Do not edit this file. It is automatically generated by API Documenter.)

[Packages](/docs/apis/) &gt; [@fluid-experimental/tree](/docs/apis/tree) &gt; [NodeIdGenerator](/docs/apis/tree/nodeidgenerator)

An object which can generate node IDs

<b>Signature:</b>

```typescript
export interface NodeIdGenerator 
```

## Methods

<table class="table table-striped table-hover method-list">
<caption>List of methods on this interface</caption>
  <thead>
    <tr>
     <th scope="col">Method</th>
 <th scope="col">Description</th>
    </tr>
  </thead>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td><a href='/docs/apis/tree/nodeidgenerator#generatenodeid-MethodSignature'>generateNodeId(override)</a></td>
      <td>Generates a node identifier. The returned IDs may be used as the identifier of a node in the SharedTree. <code>NodeId</code>s are *always* unique and stable within the scope of the tree and session that generated them. They are *not* unique within a Fluid container, and *cannot* be compared across instances of a SharedTree. They are *not* stable across sessions/lifetimes of a SharedTree, and *cannot* be persisted (e.g. stored in payloads, uploaded in blobs, etc.). If stable persistence is needed, NodeIdConverter.convertToStableNodeId may be used to return a corresponding UUID that is globally unique and stable.</td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

<hr><div id=interface-details>

## Method Details {#methods-details}

### generateNodeId {#generatenodeid-MethodSignature}

Generates a node identifier. The returned IDs may be used as the identifier of a node in the SharedTree. `NodeId`<!-- -->s are \*always\* unique and stable within the scope of the tree and session that generated them. They are \*not\* unique within a Fluid container, and \*cannot\* be compared across instances of a SharedTree. They are \*not\* stable across sessions/lifetimes of a SharedTree, and \*cannot\* be persisted (e.g. stored in payloads, uploaded in blobs, etc.). If stable persistence is needed, NodeIdConverter.convertToStableNodeId may be used to return a corresponding UUID that is globally unique and stable.

<b>Signature:</b>

```typescript
generateNodeId(override?: string): NodeId;
```

#### Parameters {#generatenodeid-MethodSignature-parameters}


<table class="table table-striped table-hover param-list">
<caption>List of parameters</caption>
  <thead>
    <tr>
     <th scope="col">Parameter</th>
 <th scope="col">Type</th>
 <th scope="col">Description</th>
    </tr>
  </thead>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td>override</td>
      <td>string</td>
      <td>if supplied, calls to <code>convertToStableNodeId</code> using the returned node ID will return the override instead of the UUID. Calls to <code>generateNodeId</code> with the same override always return the same ID. Performance note: passing an override string incurs a storage cost that is significantly higher that a node ID without one, and should be avoided if possible.</td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>


</div>
