{"kind":"Interface","title":"ReconciliationPath Interface","summary":"The path of edits from the revision view where a change was meant to have been applied to the view where the edit that contains the change is actually applied. The path only contains edits that were successfully applied. This path is always empty for a change that has no concurrent edits.","members":{"IndexSignature":{"(indexer)":"/docs/apis/tree/reconciliationpath#_indexer_-IndexSignature"},"PropertySignature":{"length":"/docs/apis/tree/reconciliationpath#length-PropertySignature"}},"package":"@fluid-experimental/tree","unscopedPackageName":"tree"}

[//]: # (Do not edit this file. It is automatically generated by API Documenter.)

[Packages](/docs/apis/) &gt; [@fluid-experimental/tree](/docs/apis/tree) &gt; [ReconciliationPath](/docs/apis/tree/reconciliationpath)

The path of edits from the revision view where a change was meant to have been applied to the view where the edit that contains the change is actually applied. The path only contains edits that were successfully applied. This path is always empty for a change that has no concurrent edits.

<b>Signature:</b>

```typescript
export interface ReconciliationPath 
```

## Properties

<table class="table table-striped table-hover property-list">
<caption>List of properties on this interface</caption>
  <thead>
    <tr>
     <th scope="col">Property</th>
 <th scope="col">Type</th>
 <th scope="col">Description</th>
    </tr>
  </thead>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td><a href='/docs/apis/tree/reconciliationpath#length-PropertySignature'>length</a></td>
      <td>number</td>
      <td>The number of edits in the path.</td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

<hr><div id=interface-details>

## Property Details {#properties-details}

### length {#length-PropertySignature}

The number of edits in the path.

<b>Signature:</b>

```typescript
readonly length: number;
```

</div>
