{
  "title": "ISharedMatrixEvents Interface",
  "summary": "Events emitted by Shared Matrix.",
  "kind": "Interface",
  "members": {
    "CallSignature": {
      "(call)": "/docs/apis/matrix/isharedmatrixevents-interface#_call_-callsignature"
    }
  },
  "package": "@fluidframework/matrix",
  "unscopedPackageName": "matrix"
}

[//]: # (Do not edit this file. It is automatically generated by @fluidtools/api-markdown-documenter.)

Events emitted by Shared Matrix.

WARNING: This API is provided as an alpha preview and may change without notice. Use at your own risk.

## Signature {#isharedmatrixevents-signature}

```typescript
export interface ISharedMatrixEvents<T> extends ISharedObjectEvents
```

**Extends:** [ISharedObjectEvents](/docs/apis/shared-object-base/isharedobjectevents-interface)

### Type Parameters

<table class="table table-striped table-hover">
  <thead>
    <tr>
      <th>
        Parameter
      </th>
      <th>
        Description
      </th>
    </tr>
  </thead>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td>
        T
      </td>
      <td>
      </td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

## Call Signatures

<table class="table table-striped table-hover">
  <thead>
    <tr>
      <th>
        CallSignature
      </th>
      <th>
        Alerts
      </th>
      <th>
        Description
      </th>
    </tr>
  </thead>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td>
        <a href='/docs/apis/matrix/isharedmatrixevents-interface#_call_-callsignature'>(event: &quot;conflict&quot;, listener: (row: number, col: number, currentValue: MatrixItem&lt;T&gt;, conflictingValue: MatrixItem&lt;T&gt;, target: IEventThisPlaceHolder) =&gt; void): void</a>
      </td>
      <td>
        <code>ALPHA</code>
      </td>
      <td>
        This event is only emitted when the SetCell Resolution Policy is First Write Win(FWW). This is emitted when two clients race and send changes without observing each other changes, the changes that gets sequenced last would be rejected, and only client who's changes rejected would be notified via this event, with expectation that it will merge its changes back by accounting new information (state from winner of the race).
      </td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

## Call Signature Details

### (event: "conflict", listener: (row: number, col: number, currentValue: MatrixItem&lt;T&gt;, conflictingValue: MatrixItem&lt;T&gt;, target: IEventThisPlaceHolder) =&gt; void): void (ALPHA) {#_call_-callsignature}

This event is only emitted when the SetCell Resolution Policy is First Write Win(FWW). This is emitted when two clients race and send changes without observing each other changes, the changes that gets sequenced last would be rejected, and only client who's changes rejected would be notified via this event, with expectation that it will merge its changes back by accounting new information (state from winner of the race).

WARNING: This API is provided as an alpha preview and may change without notice. Use at your own risk.

#### Signature {#_call_-signature}

```typescript
(event: "conflict", listener: (row: number, col: number, currentValue: MatrixItem<T>, conflictingValue: MatrixItem<T>, target: IEventThisPlaceHolder) => void): void;
```

#### Remarks {#_call_-remarks}

Listener parameters:

- `row` - Row number at which conflict happened.

- `col` - Col number at which conflict happened.

- `currentValue` - The current value of the cell.

- `conflictingValue` - The value that this client tried to set in the cell and got ignored due to conflict.

- `target` - The [SharedMatrix](/docs/apis/matrix/sharedmatrix-class) itself.
