{
  "title": "DevtoolsProps Interface",
  "summary": "Properties for configuring [IDevtools](/docs/apis/devtools/idevtools-interface).",
  "kind": "Interface",
  "members": {
    "PropertySignature": {
      "initialContainers": "/docs/apis/devtools/devtoolsprops-interface#initialcontainers-propertysignature",
      "logger": "/docs/apis/devtools/devtoolsprops-interface#logger-propertysignature"
    }
  },
  "package": "@fluid-experimental/devtools",
  "unscopedPackageName": "devtools"
}

[//]: # (Do not edit this file. It is automatically generated by @fluidtools/api-markdown-documenter.)

Properties for configuring [IDevtools](/docs/apis/devtools/idevtools-interface).

WARNING: This API is provided as an alpha preview and may change without notice. Use at your own risk.

## Signature {#devtoolsprops-signature}

```typescript
export interface DevtoolsProps
```

## Properties

<table class="table table-striped table-hover">
  <thead>
    <tr>
      <th>
        Property
      </th>
      <th>
        Alerts
      </th>
      <th>
        Modifiers
      </th>
      <th>
        Type
      </th>
      <th>
        Description
      </th>
    </tr>
  </thead>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td>
        <a href='/docs/apis/devtools/devtoolsprops-interface#initialcontainers-propertysignature'>initialContainers</a>
      </td>
      <td>
        <code>ALPHA</code>
      </td>
      <td>
        <code>optional</code>
      </td>
      <td>
        <span><a href='/docs/apis/devtools/containerdevtoolsprops-interface'>ContainerDevtoolsProps</a>[]</span>
      </td>
      <td>
        (optional) List of Containers to initialize the devtools with.
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>
        <a href='/docs/apis/devtools/devtoolsprops-interface#logger-propertysignature'>logger</a>
      </td>
      <td>
        <code>ALPHA</code>
      </td>
      <td>
        <code>optional</code>
      </td>
      <td>
        <span><a href='/docs/apis/devtools-core/idevtoolslogger-interface'>IDevtoolsLogger</a></span>
      </td>
      <td>
        (optional) telemetry logger associated with the Fluid runtime.
      </td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

## Property Details

### initialContainers (ALPHA) {#initialcontainers-propertysignature}

(optional) List of Containers to initialize the devtools with.

WARNING: This API is provided as an alpha preview and may change without notice. Use at your own risk.

#### Signature {#initialcontainers-signature}

```typescript
initialContainers?: ContainerDevtoolsProps[];
```

#### Remarks {#initialcontainers-remarks}

Additional Containers can be registered with the Devtools via [registerContainerDevtools(props)](/docs/apis/devtools/idevtools-interface#registercontainerdevtools-methodsignature).

### logger (ALPHA) {#logger-propertysignature}

(optional) telemetry logger associated with the Fluid runtime.

WARNING: This API is provided as an alpha preview and may change without notice. Use at your own risk.

#### Signature {#logger-signature}

```typescript
logger?: IDevtoolsLogger;
```

#### Remarks {#logger-remarks}

Note: the Devtools do not register this logger with the Fluid runtime; that must be done separately.

This is provided to the Devtools instance strictly to enable communicating supported / desired functionality with external listeners.
