{
  "title": "IConfigProviderBase Interface",
  "summary": "Base interface for providing configurations to enable/disable/control features.",
  "kind": "Interface",
  "members": {
    "MethodSignature": {
      "getRawConfig": "/docs/apis/core-interfaces/iconfigproviderbase-interface#getrawconfig-methodsignature"
    }
  },
  "package": "@fluidframework/core-interfaces",
  "unscopedPackageName": "core-interfaces"
}

[//]: # (Do not edit this file. It is automatically generated by @fluidtools/api-markdown-documenter.)

Base interface for providing configurations to enable/disable/control features.

## Signature {#iconfigproviderbase-signature}

```typescript
export interface IConfigProviderBase
```

## Methods

<table class="table table-striped table-hover">
  <thead>
    <tr>
      <th>
        Method
      </th>
      <th>
        Return Type
      </th>
      <th>
        Description
      </th>
    </tr>
  </thead>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td>
        <a href='/docs/apis/core-interfaces/iconfigproviderbase-interface#getrawconfig-methodsignature'>getRawConfig(name)</a>
      </td>
      <td>
        <span><a href='/docs/apis/core-interfaces#configtypes-typealias'>ConfigTypes</a></span>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>
          For the specified config name this function gets the value.
        </p>
        <p>
          This type is meant be easy to implement by Fluid Framework consumers so the returned valued needs minimal type coercion, and allows consumers to return values in a natural way from whatever source they retrieve them.
        </p>
        <p>
          For instance a value of 1 maybe be returned as a string or a number. For array types a json string or an object are allowable.
        </p>
        <p>
          It should return undefined if there is no value available for the config name.
        </p>
      </td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

## Method Details

### getRawConfig {#getrawconfig-methodsignature}

For the specified config name this function gets the value.

This type is meant be easy to implement by Fluid Framework consumers so the returned valued needs minimal type coercion, and allows consumers to return values in a natural way from whatever source they retrieve them.

For instance a value of 1 maybe be returned as a string or a number. For array types a json string or an object are allowable.

It should return undefined if there is no value available for the config name.

#### Signature {#getrawconfig-signature}

```typescript
getRawConfig(name: string): ConfigTypes;
```

#### Parameters {#getrawconfig-parameters}

<table class="table table-striped table-hover">
  <thead>
    <tr>
      <th>
        Parameter
      </th>
      <th>
        Type
      </th>
      <th>
        Description
      </th>
    </tr>
  </thead>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td>
        name
      </td>
      <td>
        <span>string</span>
      </td>
      <td>
        The name of the config to get the value for.
      </td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

#### Returns {#getrawconfig-returns}

**Return type:** [ConfigTypes](/docs/apis/core-interfaces#configtypes-typealias)
