{
  "title": "IFluidCodeDetails Interface",
  "summary": "Data structure used to describe the code to load on the Fluid document.",
  "kind": "Interface",
  "members": {
    "PropertySignature": {
      "config": "/docs/apis/core-interfaces/ifluidcodedetails-interface#config-propertysignature",
      "package": "/docs/apis/core-interfaces/ifluidcodedetails-interface#package-propertysignature"
    }
  },
  "package": "@fluidframework/core-interfaces",
  "unscopedPackageName": "core-interfaces"
}

[//]: # (Do not edit this file. It is automatically generated by @fluidtools/api-markdown-documenter.)

Data structure used to describe the code to load on the Fluid document.

{{% callout warning This API is deprecated and will be removed in a future release. %}}
in favor of [IFluidCodeDetails](/docs/apis/container-definitions/ifluidcodedetails-interface) to have code loading modules in same package.

{{% /callout %}}

WARNING: This API is provided as an alpha preview and may change without notice. Use at your own risk.

## Signature {#ifluidcodedetails-signature}

```typescript
export interface IFluidCodeDetails
```

## Properties

<table class="table table-striped table-hover">
  <thead>
    <tr>
      <th>
        Property
      </th>
      <th>
        Alerts
      </th>
      <th>
        Modifiers
      </th>
      <th>
        Type
      </th>
      <th>
        Description
      </th>
    </tr>
  </thead>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td>
        <a href='/docs/apis/core-interfaces/ifluidcodedetails-interface#config-propertysignature'>config</a>
      </td>
      <td>
        <code>ALPHA</code>
      </td>
      <td>
        <code>optional</code>, <code>readonly</code>
      </td>
      <td>
        <span><a href='/docs/apis/core-interfaces/ifluidcodedetailsconfig-interface'>IFluidCodeDetailsConfig</a></span>
      </td>
      <td>
        Configuration details. This includes links to the package manager and base CDNs.
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>
        <a href='/docs/apis/core-interfaces/ifluidcodedetails-interface#package-propertysignature'>package</a>
      </td>
      <td>
        <code>ALPHA</code>
      </td>
      <td>
        <code>readonly</code>
      </td>
      <td>
        <span>string &#124; Readonly&lt;<a href='/docs/apis/core-interfaces/ifluidpackage-interface'>IFluidPackage</a>&gt;</span>
      </td>
      <td>
        The code package to be used on the Fluid document. This is either the package name which will be loaded from a package manager. Or the expanded Fluid package.
      </td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

## Property Details

### config (ALPHA) {#config-propertysignature}

Configuration details. This includes links to the package manager and base CDNs.

WARNING: This API is provided as an alpha preview and may change without notice. Use at your own risk.

#### Signature {#config-signature}

```typescript
readonly config?: IFluidCodeDetailsConfig;
```

### package (ALPHA) {#package-propertysignature}

The code package to be used on the Fluid document. This is either the package name which will be loaded from a package manager. Or the expanded Fluid package.

WARNING: This API is provided as an alpha preview and may change without notice. Use at your own risk.

#### Signature {#package-signature}

```typescript
readonly package: string | Readonly<IFluidPackage>;
```
