{
  "title": "IFluidMountableView Interface",
  "summary": "An IFluidMountableView provides a view bundled with a mounting mechanism. That view can be mounted and unmounted from a given element. This bundling of view + mounting mechanism is important for React, which needs the same React instance to be used for the mounting ReactDOM.render() call as the Fluid object it's mounting, or else React hooks don't work. This is the case in scenarios like webpack-fluid-loader, which attempts to do cross-bundle mounting.\n\nThis is not intended to be used as a general rendering/mounting approach, but rather as just a specific solution for cross-bundle mounting. General rendering/mounting should instead use the view adapters or make direct calls to framework-specific rendering APIs.",
  "kind": "Interface",
  "members": {
    "MethodSignature": {
      "mount": "/docs/apis/view-interfaces/ifluidmountableview-interface#mount-methodsignature",
      "unmount": "/docs/apis/view-interfaces/ifluidmountableview-interface#unmount-methodsignature"
    }
  },
  "package": "@fluidframework/view-interfaces",
  "unscopedPackageName": "view-interfaces"
}

[//]: # (Do not edit this file. It is automatically generated by @fluidtools/api-markdown-documenter.)

[Packages](/docs/apis/) &gt; [@fluidframework/view-interfaces](/docs/apis/view-interfaces) &gt; [IFluidMountableView](/docs/apis/view-interfaces/ifluidmountableview-interface)

An IFluidMountableView provides a view bundled with a mounting mechanism. That view can be mounted and unmounted from a given element. This bundling of view + mounting mechanism is important for React, which needs the same React instance to be used for the mounting ReactDOM.render() call as the Fluid object it's mounting, or else React hooks don't work. This is the case in scenarios like webpack-fluid-loader, which attempts to do cross-bundle mounting.

This is not intended to be used as a general rendering/mounting approach, but rather as just a specific solution for cross-bundle mounting. General rendering/mounting should instead use the view adapters or make direct calls to framework-specific rendering APIs.

## Signature {#ifluidmountableview-signature}

```typescript
export interface IFluidMountableView extends IProvideFluidMountableView
```

**Extends:** [IProvideFluidMountableView](/docs/apis/view-interfaces/iprovidefluidmountableview-interface)

## Methods

<table class="table table-striped table-hover">
  <thead>
    <tr>
      <th>
        Method
      </th>
      <th>
        Return Type
      </th>
      <th>
        Description
      </th>
    </tr>
  </thead>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td>
        <a href='/docs/apis/view-interfaces/ifluidmountableview-interface#mount-methodsignature'>mount</a>
      </td>
      <td>
        <span>void</span>
      </td>
      <td>
        Mounts the view at the given element.
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>
        <a href='/docs/apis/view-interfaces/ifluidmountableview-interface#unmount-methodsignature'>unmount</a>
      </td>
      <td>
        <span>void</span>
      </td>
      <td>
        Performs any necessary cleanup for the view and then removes it from the DOM.
      </td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

## Method Details

### mount {#mount-methodsignature}

Mounts the view at the given element.

#### Signature {#mount-signature}

```typescript
mount(container: HTMLElement): void;
```

#### Parameters {#mount-parameters}

<table class="table table-striped table-hover">
  <thead>
    <tr>
      <th>
        Parameter
      </th>
      <th>
        Type
      </th>
      <th>
        Description
      </th>
    </tr>
  </thead>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td>
        container
      </td>
      <td>
        <span>HTMLElement</span>
      </td>
      <td>
        the DOM parent of the view we will mount
      </td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

### unmount {#unmount-methodsignature}

Performs any necessary cleanup for the view and then removes it from the DOM.

#### Signature {#unmount-signature}

```typescript
unmount(): void;
```
