{
  "title": "DataObjectTypes Interface",
  "summary": "This type is used as the base generic input to DataObject and PureDataObject.",
  "kind": "Interface",
  "members": {
    "PropertySignature": {
      "Events": "/docs/apis/aqueduct/dataobjecttypes-interface#events-propertysignature",
      "InitialState": "/docs/apis/aqueduct/dataobjecttypes-interface#initialstate-propertysignature",
      "OptionalProviders": "/docs/apis/aqueduct/dataobjecttypes-interface#optionalproviders-propertysignature"
    }
  },
  "package": "@fluidframework/aqueduct",
  "unscopedPackageName": "aqueduct"
}

[//]: # (Do not edit this file. It is automatically generated by @fluidtools/api-markdown-documenter.)

This type is used as the base generic input to DataObject and PureDataObject.

WARNING: This API is provided as an alpha preview and may change without notice. Use at your own risk.

## Signature {#dataobjecttypes-signature}

```typescript
export interface DataObjectTypes
```

## Properties

<table class="table table-striped table-hover">
  <thead>
    <tr>
      <th>
        Property
      </th>
      <th>
        Alerts
      </th>
      <th>
        Modifiers
      </th>
      <th>
        Type
      </th>
      <th>
        Description
      </th>
    </tr>
  </thead>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td>
        <a href='/docs/apis/aqueduct/dataobjecttypes-interface#events-propertysignature'>Events</a>
      </td>
      <td>
        <code>ALPHA</code>
      </td>
      <td>
        <code>optional</code>
      </td>
      <td>
        <span><a href='/docs/apis/core-interfaces/ievent-interface'>IEvent</a></span>
      </td>
      <td>
        represents events that will be available in the EventForwarder
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>
        <a href='/docs/apis/aqueduct/dataobjecttypes-interface#initialstate-propertysignature'>InitialState</a>
      </td>
      <td>
        <code>ALPHA</code>
      </td>
      <td>
        <code>optional</code>
      </td>
      <td>
        <span>any</span>
      </td>
      <td>
        the initial state type that the produced data object may take during creation
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>
        <a href='/docs/apis/aqueduct/dataobjecttypes-interface#optionalproviders-propertysignature'>OptionalProviders</a>
      </td>
      <td>
        <code>ALPHA</code>
      </td>
      <td>
        <code>optional</code>
      </td>
      <td>
        <span><a href='/docs/apis/core-interfaces#fluidobject-typealias'>FluidObject</a></span>
      </td>
      <td>
        represents a type that will define optional providers that will be injected
      </td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

## Property Details

### Events (ALPHA) {#events-propertysignature}

represents events that will be available in the EventForwarder

WARNING: This API is provided as an alpha preview and may change without notice. Use at your own risk.

#### Signature {#events-signature}

```typescript
Events?: IEvent;
```

### InitialState (ALPHA) {#initialstate-propertysignature}

the initial state type that the produced data object may take during creation

WARNING: This API is provided as an alpha preview and may change without notice. Use at your own risk.

#### Signature {#initialstate-signature}

```typescript
InitialState?: any;
```

### OptionalProviders (ALPHA) {#optionalproviders-propertysignature}

represents a type that will define optional providers that will be injected

WARNING: This API is provided as an alpha preview and may change without notice. Use at your own risk.

#### Signature {#optionalproviders-signature}

```typescript
OptionalProviders?: FluidObject;
```
