{
  "title": "DataObject Class",
  "summary": "DataObject is a base data store that is primed with a root directory. It ensures that it is created and ready before you can access it.\n\nHaving a single root directory allows for easier development. Instead of creating and registering channels with the runtime any new DDS that is set on the root will automatically be registered.",
  "kind": "Class",
  "members": {
    "Property": {
      "root": "/docs/apis/aqueduct/dataobject-class#root-property"
    }
  },
  "package": "@fluidframework/aqueduct",
  "unscopedPackageName": "aqueduct"
}

[//]: # (Do not edit this file. It is automatically generated by @fluidtools/api-markdown-documenter.)

DataObject is a base data store that is primed with a root directory. It ensures that it is created and ready before you can access it.

Having a single root directory allows for easier development. Instead of creating and registering channels with the runtime any new DDS that is set on the root will automatically be registered.

WARNING: This API is provided as an alpha preview and may change without notice. Use at your own risk.

## Signature {#dataobject-signature}

```typescript
export declare abstract class DataObject<I extends DataObjectTypes = DataObjectTypes> extends PureDataObject<I>
```

**Extends:** [PureDataObject](/docs/apis/aqueduct/puredataobject-class)&lt;I&gt;

### Type Parameters

<table class="table table-striped table-hover">
  <thead>
    <tr>
      <th>
        Parameter
      </th>
      <th>
        Modifiers
      </th>
      <th>
        Description
      </th>
    </tr>
  </thead>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td>
        I
      </td>
      <td>
        optional
      </td>
      <td>
        The optional input types used to strongly type the data object
      </td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

## Properties

<table class="table table-striped table-hover">
  <thead>
    <tr>
      <th>
        Property
      </th>
      <th>
        Alerts
      </th>
      <th>
        Modifiers
      </th>
      <th>
        Type
      </th>
      <th>
        Description
      </th>
    </tr>
  </thead>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td>
        <a href='/docs/apis/aqueduct/dataobject-class#root-property'>root</a>
      </td>
      <td>
        <code>ALPHA</code>
      </td>
      <td>
        <code>readonly</code>
      </td>
      <td>
        <span><a href='/docs/apis/map/ishareddirectory-interface'>ISharedDirectory</a></span>
      </td>
      <td>
        The root directory will either be ready or will return an error. If an error is thrown the root has not been correctly created/set.
      </td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

## Property Details

### root (ALPHA) {#root-property}

The root directory will either be ready or will return an error. If an error is thrown the root has not been correctly created/set.

WARNING: This API is provided as an alpha preview and may change without notice. Use at your own risk.

#### Signature {#root-signature}

```typescript
protected get root(): ISharedDirectory;
```
