{
  "title": "ISameContainerMigratableModel Interface",
  "kind": "Interface",
  "members": {
    "MethodSignature": {
      "close": "/docs/apis/example-utils/isamecontainermigratablemodel-interface#close-methodsignature",
      "connected": "/docs/apis/example-utils/isamecontainermigratablemodel-interface#connected-methodsignature"
    },
    "PropertySignature": {
      "container": "/docs/apis/example-utils/isamecontainermigratablemodel-interface#container-propertysignature",
      "migrationTool": "/docs/apis/example-utils/isamecontainermigratablemodel-interface#migrationtool-propertysignature"
    }
  },
  "package": "@fluid-example/example-utils",
  "unscopedPackageName": "example-utils"
}

[//]: # (Do not edit this file. It is automatically generated by @fluidtools/api-markdown-documenter.)

[Packages](/docs/apis/) &gt; [@fluid-example/example-utils](/docs/apis/example-utils) &gt; [ISameContainerMigratableModel](/docs/apis/example-utils/isamecontainermigratablemodel-interface)

## Signature {#isamecontainermigratablemodel-signature}

```typescript
export interface ISameContainerMigratableModel extends IVersionedModel, IImportExportModel<unknown, unknown>, IEventProvider<ISameContainerMigratableModelEvents>
```

**Extends:** [IVersionedModel](/docs/apis/example-utils/iversionedmodel-interface), [IImportExportModel](/docs/apis/example-utils/iimportexportmodel-interface)&lt;unknown, unknown&gt;, IEventProvider&lt;[ISameContainerMigratableModelEvents](/docs/apis/example-utils/isamecontainermigratablemodelevents-interface)&gt;

## Properties

<table class="table table-striped table-hover">
  <thead>
    <tr>
      <th>
        Property
      </th>
      <th>
        Modifiers
      </th>
      <th>
        Type
      </th>
      <th>
        Description
      </th>
    </tr>
  </thead>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td>
        <a href='/docs/apis/example-utils/isamecontainermigratablemodel-interface#container-propertysignature'>container</a>
      </td>
      <td>
        <code>readonly</code>
      </td>
      <td>
        <span>IContainer</span>
      </td>
      <td>
        A reference to the container associated with this model. TODO: Similar to the note on the migration tool, can we scope the required exposure here to just what the tool needs? Exposing the whole IContainer makes it available to a larger audience than should have access to it.
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>
        <a href='/docs/apis/example-utils/isamecontainermigratablemodel-interface#migrationtool-propertysignature'>migrationTool</a>
      </td>
      <td>
        <code>readonly</code>
      </td>
      <td>
        <span><a href='/docs/apis/example-utils/isamecontainermigrationtool-interface'>ISameContainerMigrationTool</a></span>
      </td>
      <td>
        The tool that will be used to facilitate the migration. TODO: Currently this is the only difference as compared to IMigratableModel (which has a non-same-container tool). Can we merge these interfaces later somehow?
      </td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

## Methods

<table class="table table-striped table-hover">
  <thead>
    <tr>
      <th>
        Method
      </th>
      <th>
        Return Type
      </th>
      <th>
        Description
      </th>
    </tr>
  </thead>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td>
        <a href='/docs/apis/example-utils/isamecontainermigratablemodel-interface#close-methodsignature'>close</a>
      </td>
      <td>
        <span>void</span>
      </td>
      <td>
        Close the model, rendering it inoperable and closing connections. TODO: Decide whether the closing is an integral part of the migration, or if the caller should do the closing.
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>
        <a href='/docs/apis/example-utils/isamecontainermigratablemodel-interface#connected-methodsignature'>connected</a>
      </td>
      <td>
        <span>boolean</span>
      </td>
      <td>
        Returns if the runtime is currently connected.
      </td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

## Property Details

### container {#container-propertysignature}

A reference to the container associated with this model. TODO: Similar to the note on the migration tool, can we scope the required exposure here to just what the tool needs? Exposing the whole IContainer makes it available to a larger audience than should have access to it.

#### Signature {#container-signature}

```typescript
readonly container: IContainer;
```

### migrationTool {#migrationtool-propertysignature}

The tool that will be used to facilitate the migration. TODO: Currently this is the only difference as compared to IMigratableModel (which has a non-same-container tool). Can we merge these interfaces later somehow?

#### Signature {#migrationtool-signature}

```typescript
readonly migrationTool: ISameContainerMigrationTool;
```

## Method Details

### close {#close-methodsignature}

Close the model, rendering it inoperable and closing connections. TODO: Decide whether the closing is an integral part of the migration, or if the caller should do the closing.

#### Signature {#close-signature}

```typescript
close(): void;
```

### connected {#connected-methodsignature}

Returns if the runtime is currently connected.

#### Signature {#connected-signature}

```typescript
connected(): boolean;
```

#### Returns {#connected-returns}

**Return type:** boolean
