{"kind":"Interface","title":"ContainerSchema Interface","summary":"The ContainerSchema declares the Fluid objects that will be available in the container. It includes both the instances of objects that are initially available upon container creation, as well as the types of objects that may be dynamically created throughout the lifetime of the container.","members":{"PropertySignature":{"dynamicObjectTypes":"/docs/apis/fluid-static/containerschema#dynamicobjecttypes-PropertySignature","initialObjects":"/docs/apis/fluid-static/containerschema#initialobjects-PropertySignature"}},"package":"@fluidframework/fluid-static","unscopedPackageName":"fluid-static"}

[//]: # (Do not edit this file. It is automatically generated by API Documenter.)

[Packages](/docs/apis/) &gt; [@fluidframework/fluid-static](/docs/apis/fluid-static) &gt; [ContainerSchema](/docs/apis/fluid-static/containerschema)

The ContainerSchema declares the Fluid objects that will be available in the container. It includes both the instances of objects that are initially available upon container creation, as well as the types of objects that may be dynamically created throughout the lifetime of the container.

<b>Signature:</b>

```typescript
export interface ContainerSchema 
```

## Properties

<table class="table table-striped table-hover property-list">
<caption>List of properties on this interface</caption>
  <thead>
    <tr>
     <th scope="col">Property</th>
 <th scope="col">Type</th>
 <th scope="col">Description</th>
    </tr>
  </thead>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td><a href='/docs/apis/fluid-static/containerschema#dynamicobjecttypes-PropertySignature'>dynamicObjectTypes</a></td>
      <td><a href='/docs/apis/fluid-static#loadableobjectclass-TypeAlias'>LoadableObjectClass</a><any>[]</td>
      <td>Dynamic objects are Loadable objects that can be created after the initial Container creation.<!-- -->Types defined in <code>initialObjects</code> will always be available and are not required to be provided here.<!-- -->For best practice it's recommended to define all the dynamic types you create even if they are included via initialObjects.</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td><a href='/docs/apis/fluid-static/containerschema#initialobjects-PropertySignature'>initialObjects</a></td>
      <td><a href='/docs/apis/fluid-static#loadableobjectclassrecord-TypeAlias'>LoadableObjectClassRecord</a></td>
      <td>Defines loadable objects that will be created when the <code>Container</code> is first created. It uses the key as the id and the value as the loadable object to create.</td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

<hr><div id=interface-details>

## Property Details {#properties-details}

### dynamicObjectTypes {#dynamicobjecttypes-PropertySignature}

Dynamic objects are Loadable objects that can be created after the initial Container creation.

Types defined in `initialObjects` will always be available and are not required to be provided here.

For best practice it's recommended to define all the dynamic types you create even if they are included via initialObjects.

<b>Signature:</b>

```typescript
dynamicObjectTypes?: LoadableObjectClass<any>[];
```

### initialObjects {#initialobjects-PropertySignature}

Defines loadable objects that will be created when the `Container` is first created. It uses the key as the id and the value as the loadable object to create.

<b>Signature:</b>

```typescript
initialObjects: LoadableObjectClassRecord;
```

#### Example {#initialobjects-PropertySignature-example}

In the example below two objects will be created when the Container is first created. One with id "map1" that will return a `SharedMap` and the other with id "pair1" that will return a `KeyValueDataObject`<!-- -->.

```
{
  map1: SharedMap,
  pair1: KeyValueDataObject,
}
```


</div>
