{"kind":"Class","title":"FluidContainer Class","summary":"Base [IFluidContainer](/docs/apis/fluid-static/ifluidcontainer) implementation.","members":{"Constructor":{"(constructor)":"/docs/apis/fluid-static/fluidcontainer#_constructor_-Constructor"},"Method":{"attach":"/docs/apis/fluid-static/fluidcontainer#attach-Method","connect":"/docs/apis/fluid-static/fluidcontainer#connect-Method","create":"/docs/apis/fluid-static/fluidcontainer#create-Method","disconnect":"/docs/apis/fluid-static/fluidcontainer#disconnect-Method","dispose":"/docs/apis/fluid-static/fluidcontainer#dispose-Method"},"Property":{"attachState":"/docs/apis/fluid-static/fluidcontainer#attachstate-Property","connectionState":"/docs/apis/fluid-static/fluidcontainer#connectionstate-Property","disposed":"/docs/apis/fluid-static/fluidcontainer#disposed-Property","initialObjects":"/docs/apis/fluid-static/fluidcontainer#initialobjects-Property","isDirty":"/docs/apis/fluid-static/fluidcontainer#isdirty-Property"}},"package":"@fluidframework/fluid-static","unscopedPackageName":"fluid-static"}

[//]: # (Do not edit this file. It is automatically generated by API Documenter.)

[Packages](/docs/apis/) &gt; [@fluidframework/fluid-static](/docs/apis/fluid-static) &gt; [FluidContainer](/docs/apis/fluid-static/fluidcontainer)

Base [IFluidContainer](/docs/apis/fluid-static/ifluidcontainer) implementation.

<b>Signature:</b>

```typescript
export declare class FluidContainer extends TypedEventEmitter<IFluidContainerEvents> implements IFluidContainer 
```
<b>Extends:</b> [TypedEventEmitter](/docs/apis/common-utils/typedeventemitter)<!-- -->&lt;[IFluidContainerEvents](/docs/apis/fluid-static/ifluidcontainerevents)

<b>Implements:</b> [IFluidContainer](/docs/apis/fluid-static/ifluidcontainer)

## Remarks

Note: this implementation is not complete. Consumers who rely on [IFluidContainer.attach()](/docs/apis/fluid-static/ifluidcontainer#attach-MethodSignature) will need to utilize or provide a service-specific implementation of this type that implements that method.

## Constructors

<table class="table table-striped table-hover constructor-list">
<caption>List of constructors for this class</caption>
  <thead>
    <tr>
     <th scope="col">Constructor</th>
 <th scope="col">Modifiers</th>
 <th scope="col">Description</th>
    </tr>
  </thead>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td><a href='/docs/apis/fluid-static/fluidcontainer#_constructor_-Constructor'>(constructor)(container, rootDataObject)</a></td>
      <td></td>
      <td>Constructs a new instance of the <code>FluidContainer</code> class</td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

## Properties

<table class="table table-striped table-hover property-list">
<caption>List of properties on this class</caption>
  <thead>
    <tr>
     <th scope="col">Property</th>
 <th scope="col">Modifiers</th>
 <th scope="col">Type</th>
 <th scope="col">Description</th>
    </tr>
  </thead>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td><a href='/docs/apis/fluid-static/fluidcontainer#attachstate-Property'>attachState</a></td>
      <td></td>
      <td><a href='/docs/apis/container-definitions#attachstate-Enum'>AttachState</a></td>
      <td>The current attachment state of the container. Once a container has been attached, it remains attached. When loading an existing container, it will already be attached.</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td><a href='/docs/apis/fluid-static/fluidcontainer#connectionstate-Property'>connectionState</a></td>
      <td></td>
      <td>ConnectionState</td>
      <td>Provides the current connected state of the container</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td><a href='/docs/apis/fluid-static/fluidcontainer#disposed-Property'>disposed</a></td>
      <td></td>
      <td>boolean</td>
      <td>Whether the container is disposed, which permanently disables it.</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td><a href='/docs/apis/fluid-static/fluidcontainer#initialobjects-Property'>initialObjects</a></td>
      <td></td>
      <td><a href='/docs/apis/fluid-static#loadableobjectrecord-TypeAlias'>LoadableObjectRecord</a></td>
      <td>The collection of data objects and Distributed Data Stores (DDSes) that were specified by the schema. These data objects and DDSes exist for the lifetime of the container.</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td><a href='/docs/apis/fluid-static/fluidcontainer#isdirty-Property'>isDirty</a></td>
      <td></td>
      <td>boolean</td>
      <td>A container is considered **dirty** if it has local changes that have not yet been acknowledged by the service. You should always check the <code>isDirty</code> flag before closing the container or navigating away from the page. Closing the container while <code>isDirty === true</code> may result in the loss of operations that have not yet been acknowledged by the service.<!-- -->A container is considered dirty in the following cases:<!-- -->1. The container has been created in the detached state, and either it has not been attached yet or it is in the process of being attached (container is in <code>attaching</code> state). If container is closed prior to being attached, host may never know if the file was created or not.<!-- -->2. The container was attached, but it has local changes that have not yet been saved to service endpoint. This occurs as part of normal op flow where pending operation (changes) are awaiting acknowledgement from the service. In some cases this can be due to lack of network connection. If the network connection is down, it needs to be restored for the pending changes to be acknowledged.</td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

## Methods

<table class="table table-striped table-hover method-list">
<caption>List of methods on this class</caption>
  <thead>
    <tr>
     <th scope="col">Method</th>
 <th scope="col">Modifiers</th>
 <th scope="col">Description</th>
    </tr>
  </thead>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td><a href='/docs/apis/fluid-static/fluidcontainer#attach-Method'>attach()</a></td>
      <td></td>
      <td>Incomplete base implementation of <a href='/docs/apis/fluid-static/ifluidcontainer#attach-MethodSignature'>IFluidContainer.attach()</a>.</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td><a href='/docs/apis/fluid-static/fluidcontainer#connect-Method'>connect()</a></td>
      <td></td>
      <td>Attempts to connect the container to the delta stream and process operations. Will throw an error if unsuccessful.</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td><a href='/docs/apis/fluid-static/fluidcontainer#create-Method'>create(objectClass)</a></td>
      <td></td>
      <td>Create a new data object or Distributed Data Store (DDS) of the specified type.</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td><a href='/docs/apis/fluid-static/fluidcontainer#disconnect-Method'>disconnect()</a></td>
      <td></td>
      <td>Attempts to connect the container to the delta stream and process operations. Will throw an error if unsuccessful.</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td><a href='/docs/apis/fluid-static/fluidcontainer#dispose-Method'>dispose()</a></td>
      <td></td>
      <td>Dispose of the container instance, permanently disabling it.</td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

<hr><div id=class-details>

## Constructor Details {#constructors-details}

### FluidContainer.(constructor) {#_constructor_-Constructor}

Constructs a new instance of the `FluidContainer` class

<b>Signature:</b>

```typescript
constructor(container: IContainer, rootDataObject: RootDataObject);
```

#### Parameters {#_constructor_-Constructor-parameters}


<table class="table table-striped table-hover param-list">
<caption>List of parameters</caption>
  <thead>
    <tr>
     <th scope="col">Parameter</th>
 <th scope="col">Type</th>
 <th scope="col">Description</th>
    </tr>
  </thead>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td>container</td>
      <td>IContainer</td>
      <td></td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>rootDataObject</td>
      <td><a href='/docs/apis/fluid-static/rootdataobject'>RootDataObject</a></td>
      <td></td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>


## Property Details {#properties-details}

### attachState {#attachstate-Property}

The current attachment state of the container. Once a container has been attached, it remains attached. When loading an existing container, it will already be attached.

<b>Signature:</b>

```typescript
get attachState(): AttachState;
```

### connectionState {#connectionstate-Property}

Provides the current connected state of the container

<b>Signature:</b>

```typescript
get connectionState(): ConnectionState;
```

### disposed {#disposed-Property}

Whether the container is disposed, which permanently disables it.

<b>Signature:</b>

```typescript
get disposed(): boolean;
```

### initialObjects {#initialobjects-Property}

The collection of data objects and Distributed Data Stores (DDSes) that were specified by the schema. These data objects and DDSes exist for the lifetime of the container.

<b>Signature:</b>

```typescript
get initialObjects(): LoadableObjectRecord;
```

### isDirty {#isdirty-Property}

A container is considered \*\*dirty\*\* if it has local changes that have not yet been acknowledged by the service. You should always check the `isDirty` flag before closing the container or navigating away from the page. Closing the container while `isDirty === true` may result in the loss of operations that have not yet been acknowledged by the service.

A container is considered dirty in the following cases:

1. The container has been created in the detached state, and either it has not been attached yet or it is in the process of being attached (container is in `attaching` state). If container is closed prior to being attached, host may never know if the file was created or not.

2. The container was attached, but it has local changes that have not yet been saved to service endpoint. This occurs as part of normal op flow where pending operation (changes) are awaiting acknowledgement from the service. In some cases this can be due to lack of network connection. If the network connection is down, it needs to be restored for the pending changes to be acknowledged.

<b>Signature:</b>

```typescript
get isDirty(): boolean;
```

## Method Details {#methods-details}

### attach {#attach-Method}

Incomplete base implementation of [IFluidContainer.attach()](/docs/apis/fluid-static/ifluidcontainer#attach-MethodSignature)<!-- -->.

<b>Signature:</b>

```typescript
attach(): Promise<string>;
```

#### Remarks {#attach-Method-remarks}

Note: this implementation will unconditionally throw. Consumers who rely on this will need to utilize or provide a service specific implementation of this base type that provides an implementation of this method.

The reason is because externally we are presenting a separation between the service and the `FluidContainer`<!-- -->, but internally this separation is not there.

### connect {#connect-Method}

Attempts to connect the container to the delta stream and process operations. Will throw an error if unsuccessful.

<b>Signature:</b>

```typescript
connect(): Promise<void>;
```

#### Remarks {#connect-Method-remarks}

This should only be called when the container is in the *@fluidframework/container-definitions#ConnectionState.Disconnected* state.

This can be determined by observing [IFluidContainer.connectionState](/docs/apis/fluid-static/ifluidcontainer#connectionstate-PropertySignature)<!-- -->.

### create {#create-Method}

Create a new data object or Distributed Data Store (DDS) of the specified type.

<b>Signature:</b>

```typescript
create<T extends IFluidLoadable>(objectClass: LoadableObjectClass<T>): Promise<T>;
```

#### Parameters {#create-Method-parameters}


<table class="table table-striped table-hover param-list">
<caption>List of parameters</caption>
  <thead>
    <tr>
     <th scope="col">Parameter</th>
 <th scope="col">Type</th>
 <th scope="col">Description</th>
    </tr>
  </thead>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td>objectClass</td>
      <td><a href='/docs/apis/fluid-static#loadableobjectclass-TypeAlias'>LoadableObjectClass</a><T></td>
      <td>The class of data object or DDS to create</td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

#### Remarks {#create-Method-remarks}

In order to share the data object or DDS with other collaborators and retrieve it later, store its handle in a collection like a SharedDirectory from your initialObjects.

### disconnect {#disconnect-Method}

Attempts to connect the container to the delta stream and process operations. Will throw an error if unsuccessful.

<b>Signature:</b>

```typescript
disconnect(): Promise<void>;
```

#### Remarks {#disconnect-Method-remarks}

This should only be called when the container is in the *@fluidframework/container-definitions#ConnectionState.Disconnected* state.

This can be determined by observing [IFluidContainer.connectionState](/docs/apis/fluid-static/ifluidcontainer#connectionstate-PropertySignature)<!-- -->.

### dispose {#dispose-Method}

Dispose of the container instance, permanently disabling it.

<b>Signature:</b>

```typescript
dispose(): void;
```

</div>
