{"kind":"Interface","title":"IConnection Interface","summary":"Base interface for information for each connection made to the Fluid session. This interface can be extended to provide additional information specific to each service.","members":{"PropertySignature":{"id":"/docs/apis/fluid-static/iconnection#id-PropertySignature","mode":"/docs/apis/fluid-static/iconnection#mode-PropertySignature"}},"package":"@fluidframework/fluid-static","unscopedPackageName":"fluid-static"}

[//]: # (Do not edit this file. It is automatically generated by API Documenter.)

[Packages](/docs/apis/) &gt; [@fluidframework/fluid-static](/docs/apis/fluid-static) &gt; [IConnection](/docs/apis/fluid-static/iconnection)

Base interface for information for each connection made to the Fluid session. This interface can be extended to provide additional information specific to each service.

<b>Signature:</b>

```typescript
export interface IConnection 
```

## Properties

<table class="table table-striped table-hover property-list">
<caption>List of properties on this interface</caption>
  <thead>
    <tr>
     <th scope="col">Property</th>
 <th scope="col">Type</th>
 <th scope="col">Description</th>
    </tr>
  </thead>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td><a href='/docs/apis/fluid-static/iconnection#id-PropertySignature'>id</a></td>
      <td>string</td>
      <td>A unique ID for the connection. A single user may have multiple connections, each with a different ID.</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td><a href='/docs/apis/fluid-static/iconnection#mode-PropertySignature'>mode</a></td>
      <td>"write" | "read"</td>
      <td>Whether the connection is in read or read/write mode.</td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

<hr><div id=interface-details>

## Property Details {#properties-details}

### id {#id-PropertySignature}

A unique ID for the connection. A single user may have multiple connections, each with a different ID.

<b>Signature:</b>

```typescript
id: string;
```

### mode {#mode-PropertySignature}

Whether the connection is in read or read/write mode.

<b>Signature:</b>

```typescript
mode: "write" | "read";
```

</div>
