{"kind":"Interface","title":"IMember Interface","summary":"Base interface to be implemented to fetch each service's member. This interface can be extended by each service to provide additional service-specific user metadata.","members":{"PropertySignature":{"connections":"/docs/apis/fluid-static/imember#connections-PropertySignature","userId":"/docs/apis/fluid-static/imember#userid-PropertySignature"}},"package":"@fluidframework/fluid-static","unscopedPackageName":"fluid-static"}

[//]: # (Do not edit this file. It is automatically generated by API Documenter.)

[Packages](/docs/apis/) &gt; [@fluidframework/fluid-static](/docs/apis/fluid-static) &gt; [IMember](/docs/apis/fluid-static/imember)

Base interface to be implemented to fetch each service's member. This interface can be extended by each service to provide additional service-specific user metadata.

<b>Signature:</b>

```typescript
export interface IMember 
```

## Properties

<table class="table table-striped table-hover property-list">
<caption>List of properties on this interface</caption>
  <thead>
    <tr>
     <th scope="col">Property</th>
 <th scope="col">Type</th>
 <th scope="col">Description</th>
    </tr>
  </thead>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td><a href='/docs/apis/fluid-static/imember#connections-PropertySignature'>connections</a></td>
      <td><a href='/docs/apis/fluid-static/iconnection'>IConnection</a>[]</td>
      <td>The set of connections the user has made, e.g. from multiple tabs or devices.</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td><a href='/docs/apis/fluid-static/imember#userid-PropertySignature'>userId</a></td>
      <td>string</td>
      <td>An ID for the user, unique among each individual user connecting to the session.</td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

<hr><div id=interface-details>

## Property Details {#properties-details}

### connections {#connections-PropertySignature}

The set of connections the user has made, e.g. from multiple tabs or devices.

<b>Signature:</b>

```typescript
connections: IConnection[];
```

### userId {#userid-PropertySignature}

An ID for the user, unique among each individual user connecting to the session.

<b>Signature:</b>

```typescript
userId: string;
```

</div>
