{
  "title": "IFluidModuleWithDetails Interface",
  "summary": "",
  "kind": "Interface",
  "members": {
    "PropertySignature": {
      "details": "/docs/apis/container-loader/ifluidmodulewithdetails-interface#details-propertysignature",
      "module": "/docs/apis/container-loader/ifluidmodulewithdetails-interface#module-propertysignature"
    }
  },
  "package": "@fluidframework/container-loader",
  "unscopedPackageName": "container-loader"
}

[//]: # (Do not edit this file. It is automatically generated by @fluidtools/api-markdown-documenter.)

{{% callout warning This API is deprecated and will be removed in a future release. %}}
IFluidModuleWithDetails interface is moved to [IFluidModuleWithDetails](/docs/apis/container-definitions/ifluidmodulewithdetails-interface) to have all the code loading modules in one package. \#8193 Encapsulates a module entry point with corresponding code details.

{{% /callout %}}

WARNING: This API is provided as an alpha preview and may change without notice. Use at your own risk.

## Signature {#ifluidmodulewithdetails-signature}

```typescript
export interface IFluidModuleWithDetails
```

## Properties

<table class="table table-striped table-hover">
  <thead>
    <tr>
      <th>
        Property
      </th>
      <th>
        Alerts
      </th>
      <th>
        Type
      </th>
      <th>
        Description
      </th>
    </tr>
  </thead>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td>
        <a href='/docs/apis/container-loader/ifluidmodulewithdetails-interface#details-propertysignature'>details</a>
      </td>
      <td>
        <code>ALPHA</code>
      </td>
      <td>
        <span><a href='/docs/apis/container-definitions/ifluidcodedetails-interface'>IFluidCodeDetails</a></span>
      </td>
      <td>
        Code details associated with the module. Represents a document schema this module supports. If the code loader implements the <span><i>@fluidframework/core-interfaces#IFluidCodeDetailsComparer</i></span> interface, it'll be called to determine whether the module code details satisfy the new code proposal in the quorum.
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>
        <a href='/docs/apis/container-loader/ifluidmodulewithdetails-interface#module-propertysignature'>module</a>
      </td>
      <td>
        <code>ALPHA</code>
      </td>
      <td>
        <span><a href='/docs/apis/container-definitions/ifluidmodule-interface'>IFluidModule</a></span>
      </td>
      <td>
        Fluid code module that implements the runtime factory needed to instantiate the container runtime.
      </td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

## Property Details

### details (ALPHA) {#details-propertysignature}

Code details associated with the module. Represents a document schema this module supports. If the code loader implements the _@fluidframework/core-interfaces\#IFluidCodeDetailsComparer_ interface, it'll be called to determine whether the module code details satisfy the new code proposal in the quorum.

WARNING: This API is provided as an alpha preview and may change without notice. Use at your own risk.

#### Signature {#details-signature}

```typescript
details: IFluidCodeDetails;
```

### module (ALPHA) {#module-propertysignature}

Fluid code module that implements the runtime factory needed to instantiate the container runtime.

WARNING: This API is provided as an alpha preview and may change without notice. Use at your own risk.

#### Signature {#module-signature}

```typescript
module: IFluidModule;
```
