{"kind":"Interface","title":"IFluidHTMLView Interface","summary":"An IFluidHTMLView is a renderable object, which may or may not also be its own model. If it is its own model, it is a 'thick' view, otherwise it is a 'thin' view.","members":{"MethodSignature":{"remove":"/docs/apis/view-interfaces/ifluidhtmlview#remove-MethodSignature","render":"/docs/apis/view-interfaces/ifluidhtmlview#render-MethodSignature"}},"package":"@fluidframework/view-interfaces","unscopedPackageName":"view-interfaces"}

[//]: # (Do not edit this file. It is automatically generated by API Documenter.)

[Packages](/docs/apis/) &gt; [@fluidframework/view-interfaces](/docs/apis/view-interfaces) &gt; [IFluidHTMLView](/docs/apis/view-interfaces/ifluidhtmlview)

An IFluidHTMLView is a renderable object, which may or may not also be its own model. If it is its own model, it is a "thick" view, otherwise it is a "thin" view.

<b>Signature:</b>

```typescript
export interface IFluidHTMLView extends IProvideFluidHTMLView 
```
<b>Extends:</b> [IProvideFluidHTMLView](/docs/apis/view-interfaces/iprovidefluidhtmlview)

## Methods

<table class="table table-striped table-hover method-list">
<caption>List of methods on this interface</caption>
  <thead>
    <tr>
     <th scope="col">Method</th>
 <th scope="col">Description</th>
    </tr>
  </thead>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td><a href='/docs/apis/view-interfaces/ifluidhtmlview#remove-MethodSignature'>remove()</a></td>
      <td>Views which need to perform cleanup (e.g. remove event listeners, timers, etc.) when removed from the DOM should implement remove() and perform that cleanup within. Fluid Objects which wish to remove views from the DOM should call remove() on the view before removing it from the DOM.</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td><a href='/docs/apis/view-interfaces/ifluidhtmlview#render-MethodSignature'>render(elm, options)</a></td>
      <td>Render the view into an HTML element. In the case of Block display, elm.getBoundingClientRect() defines the dimensions of the viewport in which to render. Typically, this means that elm should already be placed into the DOM. If elm has an empty client rect, then it is assumed that it will expand to hold the rendered view.</td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

<hr><div id=interface-details>

## Method Details {#methods-details}

### remove {#remove-MethodSignature}

Views which need to perform cleanup (e.g. remove event listeners, timers, etc.) when removed from the DOM should implement remove() and perform that cleanup within. Fluid Objects which wish to remove views from the DOM should call remove() on the view before removing it from the DOM.

<b>Signature:</b>

```typescript
remove?(): void;
```

### render {#render-MethodSignature}

Render the view into an HTML element. In the case of Block display, elm.getBoundingClientRect() defines the dimensions of the viewport in which to render. Typically, this means that elm should already be placed into the DOM. If elm has an empty client rect, then it is assumed that it will expand to hold the rendered view.

<b>Signature:</b>

```typescript
render(elm: HTMLElement, options?: IFluidHTMLOptions): void;
```

#### Parameters {#render-MethodSignature-parameters}


<table class="table table-striped table-hover param-list">
<caption>List of parameters</caption>
  <thead>
    <tr>
     <th scope="col">Parameter</th>
 <th scope="col">Type</th>
 <th scope="col">Description</th>
    </tr>
  </thead>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td>elm</td>
      <td>HTMLElement</td>
      <td></td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>options</td>
      <td><a href='/docs/apis/view-interfaces/ifluidhtmloptions'>IFluidHTMLOptions</a></td>
      <td></td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>


</div>
