{
  "title": "BuildTreeNode Interface",
  "summary": "Node for use in a Build change, which is composed of a definition describing what this nodes type, an identifier identifying this node within the tree, and a payload containing an opaque serializable piece of data. An identifier can be provided explicitly if the node must be referred to before the results of the `Change` containing this BuildTreeNode can be observed. If `identifier` is not supplied, one will be generated for it in an especially efficient manner that allows for compact storage and transmission and thus this property should be omitted if convenient. See the SharedTree readme for more on the tree format.",
  "kind": "Interface",
  "members": {
    "PropertySignature": {
      "definition": "/docs/apis/tree/buildtreenode-interface#definition-propertysignature",
      "identifier": "/docs/apis/tree/buildtreenode-interface#identifier-propertysignature",
      "payload": "/docs/apis/tree/buildtreenode-interface#payload-propertysignature"
    }
  },
  "package": "@fluid-experimental/tree",
  "unscopedPackageName": "tree"
}

[//]: # (Do not edit this file. It is automatically generated by @fluidtools/api-markdown-documenter.)

Node for use in a Build change, which is composed of a definition describing what this nodes type, an identifier identifying this node within the tree, and a payload containing an opaque serializable piece of data. An identifier can be provided explicitly if the node must be referred to before the results of the `Change` containing this BuildTreeNode can be observed. If `identifier` is not supplied, one will be generated for it in an especially efficient manner that allows for compact storage and transmission and thus this property should be omitted if convenient. See the SharedTree readme for more on the tree format.

WARNING: This API is provided as an alpha preview and may change without notice. Use at your own risk.

## Signature {#buildtreenode-signature}

```typescript
export interface BuildTreeNode extends HasVariadicTraits<BuildNode>
```

**Extends:** [HasVariadicTraits](/docs/apis/tree/hasvariadictraits-interface)&lt;[BuildNode](/docs/apis/tree#buildnode-typealias)&gt;

## Properties

<table class="table table-striped table-hover">
  <thead>
    <tr>
      <th>
        Property
      </th>
      <th>
        Alerts
      </th>
      <th>
        Modifiers
      </th>
      <th>
        Type
      </th>
      <th>
        Description
      </th>
    </tr>
  </thead>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td>
        <a href='/docs/apis/tree/buildtreenode-interface#definition-propertysignature'>definition</a>
      </td>
      <td>
        <code>ALPHA</code>
      </td>
      <td>
      </td>
      <td>
        <span>string</span>
      </td>
      <td>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>
        <a href='/docs/apis/tree/buildtreenode-interface#identifier-propertysignature'>identifier</a>
      </td>
      <td>
        <code>ALPHA</code>
      </td>
      <td>
        <code>optional</code>
      </td>
      <td>
        <span><a href='/docs/apis/tree#nodeid-typealias'>NodeId</a></span>
      </td>
      <td>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>
        <a href='/docs/apis/tree/buildtreenode-interface#payload-propertysignature'>payload</a>
      </td>
      <td>
        <code>ALPHA</code>
      </td>
      <td>
        <code>optional</code>
      </td>
      <td>
        <span><a href='/docs/apis/tree#payload-typealias'>Payload</a></span>
      </td>
      <td>
      </td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

## Property Details

### definition (ALPHA) {#definition-propertysignature}

WARNING: This API is provided as an alpha preview and may change without notice. Use at your own risk.

#### Signature {#definition-signature}

```typescript
definition: string;
```

### identifier (ALPHA) {#identifier-propertysignature}

WARNING: This API is provided as an alpha preview and may change without notice. Use at your own risk.

#### Signature {#identifier-signature}

```typescript
identifier?: NodeId;
```

### payload (ALPHA) {#payload-propertysignature}

WARNING: This API is provided as an alpha preview and may change without notice. Use at your own risk.

#### Signature {#payload-signature}

```typescript
payload?: Payload;
```
