{
  "title": "ConstraintInternal Interface",
  "summary": "A set of constraints on the validity of an Edit. A Constraint is used to detect when an Edit, due to other concurrent edits, may have unintended effects or merge in non-semantic ways. It is processed in order like any other Change in an Edit. It can cause an edit to fail if the various constraints are not met at the time of evaluation (ex: the parentNode has changed due to concurrent editing). Does not modify the document.",
  "kind": "Interface",
  "members": {
    "PropertySignature": {
      "parentNode": "/docs/apis/tree/constraintinternal-interface#parentnode-propertysignature",
      "toConstrain": "/docs/apis/tree/constraintinternal-interface#toconstrain-propertysignature"
    }
  },
  "package": "@fluid-experimental/tree",
  "unscopedPackageName": "tree"
}

[//]: # (Do not edit this file. It is automatically generated by @fluidtools/api-markdown-documenter.)

A set of constraints on the validity of an Edit. A Constraint is used to detect when an Edit, due to other concurrent edits, may have unintended effects or merge in non-semantic ways. It is processed in order like any other Change in an Edit. It can cause an edit to fail if the various constraints are not met at the time of evaluation (ex: the parentNode has changed due to concurrent editing). Does not modify the document.

WARNING: This API is provided as an alpha preview and may change without notice. Use at your own risk.

## Signature {#constraintinternal-signature}

```typescript
export interface ConstraintInternal extends Omit<ConstraintInternal_0_0_2, 'toConstrain' | 'parentNode'>
```

**Extends:** Omit&lt;[ConstraintInternal\_0\_0\_2](/docs/apis/tree/constraintinternal_0_0_2-interface), 'toConstrain' \| 'parentNode'&gt;

## Properties

<table class="table table-striped table-hover">
  <thead>
    <tr>
      <th>
        Property
      </th>
      <th>
        Alerts
      </th>
      <th>
        Modifiers
      </th>
      <th>
        Type
      </th>
      <th>
        Description
      </th>
    </tr>
  </thead>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td>
        <a href='/docs/apis/tree/constraintinternal-interface#parentnode-propertysignature'>parentNode</a>
      </td>
      <td>
        <code>ALPHA</code>
      </td>
      <td>
        <code>optional</code>, <code>readonly</code>
      </td>
      <td>
        <span><a href='/docs/apis/tree#nodeid-typealias'>NodeId</a></span>
      </td>
      <td>
        Require that parent under which toConstrain is located has this identifier.
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>
        <a href='/docs/apis/tree/constraintinternal-interface#toconstrain-propertysignature'>toConstrain</a>
      </td>
      <td>
        <code>ALPHA</code>
      </td>
      <td>
        <code>readonly</code>
      </td>
      <td>
        <span><a href='/docs/apis/tree/stablerangeinternal-interface'>StableRangeInternal</a></span>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>
          Selects a sequence of nodes which will be checked against the constraints specified by the optional fields. If <code>toConstrain</code> is invalid, it will be treated like a constraint being unmet. Depending on <code>effect</code> this may or may not make the Edit invalid.
        </p>
        <p>
          When a constraint is not met, the effects is specified by <code>effect</code>.
        </p>
      </td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

## Property Details

### parentNode (ALPHA) {#parentnode-propertysignature}

Require that parent under which toConstrain is located has this identifier.

WARNING: This API is provided as an alpha preview and may change without notice. Use at your own risk.

#### Signature {#parentnode-signature}

```typescript
readonly parentNode?: NodeId;
```

### toConstrain (ALPHA) {#toconstrain-propertysignature}

Selects a sequence of nodes which will be checked against the constraints specified by the optional fields. If `toConstrain` is invalid, it will be treated like a constraint being unmet. Depending on `effect` this may or may not make the Edit invalid.

When a constraint is not met, the effects is specified by `effect`.

WARNING: This API is provided as an alpha preview and may change without notice. Use at your own risk.

#### Signature {#toconstrain-signature}

```typescript
readonly toConstrain: StableRangeInternal;
```
