{
  "title": "ConstraintEffect",
  "kind": "Enum",
  "members": {
    "EnumMember": {
      "InvalidAndDiscard": "/docs/apis/tree/constrainteffect-enum#invalidanddiscard-enummember",
      "InvalidRetry": "/docs/apis/tree/constrainteffect-enum#invalidretry-enummember",
      "ValidRetry": "/docs/apis/tree/constrainteffect-enum#validretry-enummember"
    }
  },
  "package": "@fluid-experimental/tree",
  "unscopedPackageName": "tree"
}

[//]: # (Do not edit this file. It is automatically generated by @fluidtools/api-markdown-documenter.)

What to do when a Constraint is violated.

WARNING: This API is provided as an alpha preview and may change without notice. Use at your own risk.

## Signature {#constrainteffect-signature}

```typescript
export declare enum ConstraintEffect
```

## Flags

<table class="table table-striped table-hover">
  <thead>
    <tr>
      <th>
        Flag
      </th>
      <th>
        Alerts
      </th>
      <th>
        Description
      </th>
    </tr>
  </thead>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td>
        <a href='/docs/apis/tree/constrainteffect-enum#invalidanddiscard-enummember'>InvalidAndDiscard</a>
      </td>
      <td>
        <code>ALPHA</code>
      </td>
      <td>
        Discard Edit.
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>
        <a href='/docs/apis/tree/constrainteffect-enum#invalidretry-enummember'>InvalidRetry</a>
      </td>
      <td>
        <code>ALPHA</code>
      </td>
      <td>
        Discard Edit, but record metadata that application may want to try and recover this change by recreating it. Should this be the default policy for when another (non Constraint) change is invalid?
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>
        <a href='/docs/apis/tree/constrainteffect-enum#validretry-enummember'>ValidRetry</a>
      </td>
      <td>
        <code>ALPHA</code>
      </td>
      <td>
        Apply the change, but flag it for possible reconsideration by the app (applying it is better than not, but perhaps the high level logic could produce something better).
      </td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

### InvalidAndDiscard (ALPHA) {#invalidanddiscard-enummember}

Discard Edit.

WARNING: This API is provided as an alpha preview and may change without notice. Use at your own risk.

#### Signature {#invalidanddiscard-signature}

```typescript
InvalidAndDiscard = 0
```

### InvalidRetry (ALPHA) {#invalidretry-enummember}

Discard Edit, but record metadata that application may want to try and recover this change by recreating it. Should this be the default policy for when another (non Constraint) change is invalid?

WARNING: This API is provided as an alpha preview and may change without notice. Use at your own risk.

#### Signature {#invalidretry-signature}

```typescript
InvalidRetry = 1
```

### ValidRetry (ALPHA) {#validretry-enummember}

Apply the change, but flag it for possible reconsideration by the app (applying it is better than not, but perhaps the high level logic could produce something better).

WARNING: This API is provided as an alpha preview and may change without notice. Use at your own risk.

#### Signature {#validretry-signature}

```typescript
ValidRetry = 2
```
