{
  "title": "DetachInternal Interface",
  "summary": "Removes a sequence of nodes from the tree. If a destination is specified, the detached sequence is associated with that ID and held for possible reuse by later changes in this same Edit (such as by an Insert). A Detach without a destination is a deletion of the specified sequence, as is a Detach with a destination that is not used later.",
  "kind": "Interface",
  "members": {
    "PropertySignature": {
      "source": "/docs/apis/tree/detachinternal-interface#source-propertysignature"
    }
  },
  "package": "@fluid-experimental/tree",
  "unscopedPackageName": "tree"
}

[//]: # (Do not edit this file. It is automatically generated by @fluidtools/api-markdown-documenter.)

Removes a sequence of nodes from the tree. If a destination is specified, the detached sequence is associated with that ID and held for possible reuse by later changes in this same Edit (such as by an Insert). A Detach without a destination is a deletion of the specified sequence, as is a Detach with a destination that is not used later.

WARNING: This API is provided as an alpha preview and may change without notice. Use at your own risk.

## Signature {#detachinternal-signature}

```typescript
export interface DetachInternal extends Omit<DetachInternal_0_0_2, 'source'>
```

**Extends:** Omit&lt;[DetachInternal\_0\_0\_2](/docs/apis/tree/detachinternal_0_0_2-interface), 'source'&gt;

## Properties

<table class="table table-striped table-hover">
  <thead>
    <tr>
      <th>
        Property
      </th>
      <th>
        Alerts
      </th>
      <th>
        Modifiers
      </th>
      <th>
        Type
      </th>
      <th>
        Description
      </th>
    </tr>
  </thead>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td>
        <a href='/docs/apis/tree/detachinternal-interface#source-propertysignature'>source</a>
      </td>
      <td>
        <code>ALPHA</code>
      </td>
      <td>
        <code>readonly</code>
      </td>
      <td>
        <span><a href='/docs/apis/tree/stablerangeinternal-interface'>StableRangeInternal</a></span>
      </td>
      <td>
      </td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

## Property Details

### source (ALPHA) {#source-propertysignature}

WARNING: This API is provided as an alpha preview and may change without notice. Use at your own risk.

#### Signature {#source-signature}

```typescript
readonly source: StableRangeInternal;
```
