{
  "title": "Detach Interface",
  "summary": "Removes a sequence of nodes from the tree. If a destination is specified, the detached sequence is associated with that ID and held for possible reuse by later changes in this same Edit (such as by an Insert). A Detach without a destination is a deletion of the specified sequence, as is a Detach with a destination that is not used later.",
  "kind": "Interface",
  "members": {
    "PropertySignature": {
      "destination": "/docs/apis/tree/detach-interface#destination-propertysignature",
      "source": "/docs/apis/tree/detach-interface#source-propertysignature",
      "type": "/docs/apis/tree/detach-interface#type-propertysignature"
    }
  },
  "package": "@fluid-experimental/tree",
  "unscopedPackageName": "tree"
}

[//]: # (Do not edit this file. It is automatically generated by @fluidtools/api-markdown-documenter.)

Removes a sequence of nodes from the tree. If a destination is specified, the detached sequence is associated with that ID and held for possible reuse by later changes in this same Edit (such as by an Insert). A Detach without a destination is a deletion of the specified sequence, as is a Detach with a destination that is not used later.

WARNING: This API is provided as an alpha preview and may change without notice. Use at your own risk.

## Signature {#detach-signature}

```typescript
export interface Detach
```

## Properties

<table class="table table-striped table-hover">
  <thead>
    <tr>
      <th>
        Property
      </th>
      <th>
        Alerts
      </th>
      <th>
        Modifiers
      </th>
      <th>
        Type
      </th>
      <th>
        Description
      </th>
    </tr>
  </thead>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td>
        <a href='/docs/apis/tree/detach-interface#destination-propertysignature'>destination</a>
      </td>
      <td>
        <code>ALPHA</code>
      </td>
      <td>
        <code>optional</code>, <code>readonly</code>
      </td>
      <td>
        <span>number</span>
      </td>
      <td>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>
        <a href='/docs/apis/tree/detach-interface#source-propertysignature'>source</a>
      </td>
      <td>
        <code>ALPHA</code>
      </td>
      <td>
        <code>readonly</code>
      </td>
      <td>
        <span><a href='/docs/apis/tree/stablerange-interface'>StableRange</a></span>
      </td>
      <td>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>
        <a href='/docs/apis/tree/detach-interface#type-propertysignature'>type</a>
      </td>
      <td>
        <code>ALPHA</code>
      </td>
      <td>
        <code>readonly</code>
      </td>
      <td>
        <span>typeof <a href='/docs/apis/tree/changetype-enum#detach-enummember'>ChangeType.Detach</a></span>
      </td>
      <td>
      </td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

## Property Details

### destination (ALPHA) {#destination-propertysignature}

WARNING: This API is provided as an alpha preview and may change without notice. Use at your own risk.

#### Signature {#destination-signature}

```typescript
readonly destination?: number;
```

### source (ALPHA) {#source-propertysignature}

WARNING: This API is provided as an alpha preview and may change without notice. Use at your own risk.

#### Signature {#source-signature}

```typescript
readonly source: StableRange;
```

### type (ALPHA) {#type-propertysignature}

WARNING: This API is provided as an alpha preview and may change without notice. Use at your own risk.

#### Signature {#type-signature}

```typescript
readonly type: typeof ChangeType.Detach;
```
