{
  "title": "EditValidationResult",
  "kind": "Enum",
  "members": {
    "EnumMember": {
      "Invalid": "/docs/apis/tree/editvalidationresult-enum#invalid-enummember",
      "Malformed": "/docs/apis/tree/editvalidationresult-enum#malformed-enummember",
      "Valid": "/docs/apis/tree/editvalidationresult-enum#valid-enummember"
    }
  },
  "package": "@fluid-experimental/tree",
  "unscopedPackageName": "tree"
}

[//]: # (Do not edit this file. It is automatically generated by @fluidtools/api-markdown-documenter.)

The result of validation of an Edit.

WARNING: This API is provided as an alpha preview and may change without notice. Use at your own risk.

## Signature {#editvalidationresult-signature}

```typescript
export declare enum EditValidationResult
```

## Flags

<table class="table table-striped table-hover">
  <thead>
    <tr>
      <th>
        Flag
      </th>
      <th>
        Alerts
      </th>
      <th>
        Description
      </th>
    </tr>
  </thead>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td>
        <a href='/docs/apis/tree/editvalidationresult-enum#invalid-enummember'>Invalid</a>
      </td>
      <td>
        <code>ALPHA</code>
      </td>
      <td>
        The edit is well-formed but cannot be applied to the current view, generally because concurrent changes caused one or more merge conflicts. For example, the edit refers to the <code>StablePlace</code> after node <code>C</code>, but <code>C</code> has since been deleted.
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>
        <a href='/docs/apis/tree/editvalidationresult-enum#malformed-enummember'>Malformed</a>
      </td>
      <td>
        <code>ALPHA</code>
      </td>
      <td>
        The edit contained one or more malformed changes (e.g. was missing required fields such as <code>id</code>), or contained a sequence of changes that could not possibly be applied sequentially without error (e.g. an edit which tries to insert the same detached node twice).
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>
        <a href='/docs/apis/tree/editvalidationresult-enum#valid-enummember'>Valid</a>
      </td>
      <td>
        <code>ALPHA</code>
      </td>
      <td>
        The edit is well-formed and can be applied to the current view.
      </td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

### Invalid (ALPHA) {#invalid-enummember}

The edit is well-formed but cannot be applied to the current view, generally because concurrent changes caused one or more merge conflicts. For example, the edit refers to the `StablePlace` after node `C`, but `C` has since been deleted.

WARNING: This API is provided as an alpha preview and may change without notice. Use at your own risk.

#### Signature {#invalid-signature}

```typescript
Invalid = 1
```

### Malformed (ALPHA) {#malformed-enummember}

The edit contained one or more malformed changes (e.g. was missing required fields such as `id`), or contained a sequence of changes that could not possibly be applied sequentially without error (e.g. an edit which tries to insert the same detached node twice).

WARNING: This API is provided as an alpha preview and may change without notice. Use at your own risk.

#### Signature {#malformed-signature}

```typescript
Malformed = 0
```

### Valid (ALPHA) {#valid-enummember}

The edit is well-formed and can be applied to the current view.

WARNING: This API is provided as an alpha preview and may change without notice. Use at your own risk.

#### Signature {#valid-signature}

```typescript
Valid = 2
```
