{
  "title": "NodeIdConverter Interface",
  "summary": "An object which can convert node IDs between compressed and stable variants",
  "kind": "Interface",
  "members": {
    "MethodSignature": {
      "convertToNodeId": "/docs/apis/tree/nodeidconverter-interface#converttonodeid-methodsignature",
      "convertToStableNodeId": "/docs/apis/tree/nodeidconverter-interface#converttostablenodeid-methodsignature",
      "tryConvertToNodeId": "/docs/apis/tree/nodeidconverter-interface#tryconverttonodeid-methodsignature",
      "tryConvertToStableNodeId": "/docs/apis/tree/nodeidconverter-interface#tryconverttostablenodeid-methodsignature"
    }
  },
  "package": "@fluid-experimental/tree",
  "unscopedPackageName": "tree"
}

[//]: # (Do not edit this file. It is automatically generated by @fluidtools/api-markdown-documenter.)

An object which can convert node IDs between compressed and stable variants

WARNING: This API is provided as an alpha preview and may change without notice. Use at your own risk.

## Signature {#nodeidconverter-signature}

```typescript
export interface NodeIdConverter
```

## Methods

<table class="table table-striped table-hover">
  <thead>
    <tr>
      <th>
        Method
      </th>
      <th>
        Alerts
      </th>
      <th>
        Return Type
      </th>
      <th>
        Description
      </th>
    </tr>
  </thead>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td>
        <a href='/docs/apis/tree/nodeidconverter-interface#converttonodeid-methodsignature'>convertToNodeId(id)</a>
      </td>
      <td>
        <code>ALPHA</code>
      </td>
      <td>
        <span><a href='/docs/apis/tree#nodeid-typealias'>NodeId</a></span>
      </td>
      <td>
        Given a stable ID, return the corresponding NodeId or throws if the supplied stable ID was never generated with this tree, either as a UUID corresponding to a <code>NodeId</code> or as an override passed to <code>generateNodeId</code>. If a stable ID is returned, this does not imply that there is a node with <code>id</code> in the current revision of the tree, only that <code>id</code> was at some point generated by an instance of this SharedTree.
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>
        <a href='/docs/apis/tree/nodeidconverter-interface#converttostablenodeid-methodsignature'>convertToStableNodeId(id)</a>
      </td>
      <td>
        <code>ALPHA</code>
      </td>
      <td>
        <span><a href='/docs/apis/tree#stablenodeid-typealias'>StableNodeId</a></span>
      </td>
      <td>
        Given a NodeId, returns the corresponding stable ID or throws if the supplied node ID was not generated with this tree (<code>NodeId</code>s may not be used across SharedTree instances, see <code>generateNodeId</code> for more). The returned value will be a UUID, unless the creation of <code>id</code> used an override string (see <code>generateNodeId</code> for more). The result is safe to persist and re-use across <code>SharedTree</code> instances, unlike <code>NodeId</code>.
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>
        <a href='/docs/apis/tree/nodeidconverter-interface#tryconverttonodeid-methodsignature'>tryConvertToNodeId(id)</a>
      </td>
      <td>
        <code>ALPHA</code>
      </td>
      <td>
        <span><a href='/docs/apis/tree#nodeid-typealias'>NodeId</a> &#124; undefined</span>
      </td>
      <td>
        Given a stable ID, return the corresponding NodeId or return undefined if the supplied stable ID was never generated with this tree, either as a UUID corresponding to a <code>NodeId</code> or as an override passed to <code>generateNodeId</code>. If a stable ID is returned, this does not imply that there is a node with <code>id</code> in the current revision of the tree, only that <code>id</code> was at some point generated by an instance of this SharedTree.
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>
        <a href='/docs/apis/tree/nodeidconverter-interface#tryconverttostablenodeid-methodsignature'>tryConvertToStableNodeId(id)</a>
      </td>
      <td>
        <code>ALPHA</code>
      </td>
      <td>
        <span><a href='/docs/apis/tree#stablenodeid-typealias'>StableNodeId</a> &#124; undefined</span>
      </td>
      <td>
        Given a NodeId, attempt to return the corresponding stable ID. The returned value will be a UUID, unless the creation of <code>id</code> used an override string (see <code>generateNodeId</code> for more). The returned stable ID is undefined if <code>id</code> was never created with this SharedTree. If a stable ID is returned, this does not imply that there is a node with <code>id</code> in the current revision of the tree, only that <code>id</code> was at some point generated by some instance of this tree.
      </td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

## Method Details

### convertToNodeId (ALPHA) {#converttonodeid-methodsignature}

Given a stable ID, return the corresponding NodeId or throws if the supplied stable ID was never generated with this tree, either as a UUID corresponding to a `NodeId` or as an override passed to `generateNodeId`. If a stable ID is returned, this does not imply that there is a node with `id` in the current revision of the tree, only that `id` was at some point generated by an instance of this SharedTree.

WARNING: This API is provided as an alpha preview and may change without notice. Use at your own risk.

#### Signature {#converttonodeid-signature}

```typescript
convertToNodeId(id: StableNodeId): NodeId;
```

#### Parameters {#converttonodeid-parameters}

<table class="table table-striped table-hover">
  <thead>
    <tr>
      <th>
        Parameter
      </th>
      <th>
        Type
      </th>
      <th>
        Description
      </th>
    </tr>
  </thead>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td>
        id
      </td>
      <td>
        <span><a href='/docs/apis/tree#stablenodeid-typealias'>StableNodeId</a></span>
      </td>
      <td>
      </td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

#### Returns {#converttonodeid-returns}

**Return type:** [NodeId](/docs/apis/tree#nodeid-typealias)

### convertToStableNodeId (ALPHA) {#converttostablenodeid-methodsignature}

Given a NodeId, returns the corresponding stable ID or throws if the supplied node ID was not generated with this tree (`NodeId`s may not be used across SharedTree instances, see `generateNodeId` for more). The returned value will be a UUID, unless the creation of `id` used an override string (see `generateNodeId` for more). The result is safe to persist and re-use across `SharedTree` instances, unlike `NodeId`.

WARNING: This API is provided as an alpha preview and may change without notice. Use at your own risk.

#### Signature {#converttostablenodeid-signature}

```typescript
convertToStableNodeId(id: NodeId): StableNodeId;
```

#### Parameters {#converttostablenodeid-parameters}

<table class="table table-striped table-hover">
  <thead>
    <tr>
      <th>
        Parameter
      </th>
      <th>
        Type
      </th>
      <th>
        Description
      </th>
    </tr>
  </thead>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td>
        id
      </td>
      <td>
        <span><a href='/docs/apis/tree#nodeid-typealias'>NodeId</a></span>
      </td>
      <td>
      </td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

#### Returns {#converttostablenodeid-returns}

**Return type:** [StableNodeId](/docs/apis/tree#stablenodeid-typealias)

### tryConvertToNodeId (ALPHA) {#tryconverttonodeid-methodsignature}

Given a stable ID, return the corresponding NodeId or return undefined if the supplied stable ID was never generated with this tree, either as a UUID corresponding to a `NodeId` or as an override passed to `generateNodeId`. If a stable ID is returned, this does not imply that there is a node with `id` in the current revision of the tree, only that `id` was at some point generated by an instance of this SharedTree.

WARNING: This API is provided as an alpha preview and may change without notice. Use at your own risk.

#### Signature {#tryconverttonodeid-signature}

```typescript
tryConvertToNodeId(id: StableNodeId): NodeId | undefined;
```

#### Parameters {#tryconverttonodeid-parameters}

<table class="table table-striped table-hover">
  <thead>
    <tr>
      <th>
        Parameter
      </th>
      <th>
        Type
      </th>
      <th>
        Description
      </th>
    </tr>
  </thead>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td>
        id
      </td>
      <td>
        <span><a href='/docs/apis/tree#stablenodeid-typealias'>StableNodeId</a></span>
      </td>
      <td>
      </td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

#### Returns {#tryconverttonodeid-returns}

**Return type:** [NodeId](/docs/apis/tree#nodeid-typealias) \| undefined

### tryConvertToStableNodeId (ALPHA) {#tryconverttostablenodeid-methodsignature}

Given a NodeId, attempt to return the corresponding stable ID. The returned value will be a UUID, unless the creation of `id` used an override string (see `generateNodeId` for more). The returned stable ID is undefined if `id` was never created with this SharedTree. If a stable ID is returned, this does not imply that there is a node with `id` in the current revision of the tree, only that `id` was at some point generated by some instance of this tree.

WARNING: This API is provided as an alpha preview and may change without notice. Use at your own risk.

#### Signature {#tryconverttostablenodeid-signature}

```typescript
tryConvertToStableNodeId(id: NodeId): StableNodeId | undefined;
```

#### Parameters {#tryconverttostablenodeid-parameters}

<table class="table table-striped table-hover">
  <thead>
    <tr>
      <th>
        Parameter
      </th>
      <th>
        Type
      </th>
      <th>
        Description
      </th>
    </tr>
  </thead>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td>
        id
      </td>
      <td>
        <span><a href='/docs/apis/tree#nodeid-typealias'>NodeId</a></span>
      </td>
      <td>
      </td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

#### Returns {#tryconverttostablenodeid-returns}

**Return type:** [StableNodeId](/docs/apis/tree#stablenodeid-typealias) \| undefined
