{
  "title": "NodeIdGenerator Interface",
  "summary": "An object which can generate node IDs",
  "kind": "Interface",
  "members": {
    "MethodSignature": {
      "generateNodeId": "/docs/apis/tree/nodeidgenerator-interface#generatenodeid-methodsignature"
    }
  },
  "package": "@fluid-experimental/tree",
  "unscopedPackageName": "tree"
}

[//]: # (Do not edit this file. It is automatically generated by @fluidtools/api-markdown-documenter.)

An object which can generate node IDs

WARNING: This API is provided as an alpha preview and may change without notice. Use at your own risk.

## Signature {#nodeidgenerator-signature}

```typescript
export interface NodeIdGenerator
```

## Methods

<table class="table table-striped table-hover">
  <thead>
    <tr>
      <th>
        Method
      </th>
      <th>
        Alerts
      </th>
      <th>
        Return Type
      </th>
      <th>
        Description
      </th>
    </tr>
  </thead>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td>
        <a href='/docs/apis/tree/nodeidgenerator-interface#generatenodeid-methodsignature'>generateNodeId(override)</a>
      </td>
      <td>
        <code>ALPHA</code>
      </td>
      <td>
        <span><a href='/docs/apis/tree#nodeid-typealias'>NodeId</a></span>
      </td>
      <td>
        Generates a node identifier. The returned IDs may be used as the identifier of a node in the SharedTree. <code>NodeId</code>s are *always* unique and stable within the scope of the tree and session that generated them. They are *not* unique within a Fluid container, and *cannot* be compared across instances of a SharedTree. They are *not* stable across sessions/lifetimes of a SharedTree, and *cannot* be persisted (e.g. stored in payloads, uploaded in blobs, etc.). If stable persistence is needed, NodeIdConverter.convertToStableNodeId may be used to return a corresponding UUID that is globally unique and stable.
      </td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

## Method Details

### generateNodeId (ALPHA) {#generatenodeid-methodsignature}

Generates a node identifier. The returned IDs may be used as the identifier of a node in the SharedTree. `NodeId`s are \*always\* unique and stable within the scope of the tree and session that generated them. They are \*not\* unique within a Fluid container, and \*cannot\* be compared across instances of a SharedTree. They are \*not\* stable across sessions/lifetimes of a SharedTree, and \*cannot\* be persisted (e.g. stored in payloads, uploaded in blobs, etc.). If stable persistence is needed, NodeIdConverter.convertToStableNodeId may be used to return a corresponding UUID that is globally unique and stable.

WARNING: This API is provided as an alpha preview and may change without notice. Use at your own risk.

#### Signature {#generatenodeid-signature}

```typescript
generateNodeId(override?: string): NodeId;
```

#### Parameters {#generatenodeid-parameters}

<table class="table table-striped table-hover">
  <thead>
    <tr>
      <th>
        Parameter
      </th>
      <th>
        Modifiers
      </th>
      <th>
        Type
      </th>
      <th>
        Description
      </th>
    </tr>
  </thead>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td>
        override
      </td>
      <td>
        optional
      </td>
      <td>
        <span>string</span>
      </td>
      <td>
        if supplied, calls to <code>convertToStableNodeId</code> using the returned node ID will return the override instead of the UUID. Calls to <code>generateNodeId</code> with the same override always return the same ID. Performance note: passing an override string incurs a storage cost that is significantly higher that a node ID without one, and should be avoided if possible.
      </td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

#### Returns {#generatenodeid-returns}

**Return type:** [NodeId](/docs/apis/tree#nodeid-typealias)
