{
  "title": "ReconciliationChange Interface",
  "summary": "A change in the `ReconciliationPath`.",
  "kind": "Interface",
  "members": {
    "PropertySignature": {
      "after": "/docs/apis/tree/reconciliationchange-interface#after-propertysignature",
      "resolvedChange": "/docs/apis/tree/reconciliationchange-interface#resolvedchange-propertysignature"
    }
  },
  "package": "@fluid-experimental/tree",
  "unscopedPackageName": "tree"
}

[//]: # (Do not edit this file. It is automatically generated by @fluidtools/api-markdown-documenter.)

A change in the `ReconciliationPath`.

WARNING: This API is provided as an alpha preview and may change without notice. Use at your own risk.

## Signature {#reconciliationchange-signature}

```typescript
export interface ReconciliationChange
```

## Properties

<table class="table table-striped table-hover">
  <thead>
    <tr>
      <th>
        Property
      </th>
      <th>
        Alerts
      </th>
      <th>
        Modifiers
      </th>
      <th>
        Type
      </th>
      <th>
        Description
      </th>
    </tr>
  </thead>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td>
        <a href='/docs/apis/tree/reconciliationchange-interface#after-propertysignature'>after</a>
      </td>
      <td>
        <code>ALPHA</code>
      </td>
      <td>
        <code>readonly</code>
      </td>
      <td>
        <span><a href='/docs/apis/tree/transactionview-class'>TransactionView</a></span>
      </td>
      <td>
        The resulting view from applying the resolved change.
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>
        <a href='/docs/apis/tree/reconciliationchange-interface#resolvedchange-propertysignature'>resolvedChange</a>
      </td>
      <td>
        <code>ALPHA</code>
      </td>
      <td>
        <code>readonly</code>
      </td>
      <td>
        <span><a href='/docs/apis/tree#changeinternal-typealias'>ChangeInternal</a></span>
      </td>
      <td>
        The resolved change that was applied during the edit. Resolved changes are guaranteed to be expressed with valid tree locations instead of anchors that need resolution.
      </td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

## Property Details

### after (ALPHA) {#after-propertysignature}

The resulting view from applying the resolved change.

WARNING: This API is provided as an alpha preview and may change without notice. Use at your own risk.

#### Signature {#after-signature}

```typescript
readonly after: TransactionView;
```

### resolvedChange (ALPHA) {#resolvedchange-propertysignature}

The resolved change that was applied during the edit. Resolved changes are guaranteed to be expressed with valid tree locations instead of anchors that need resolution.

WARNING: This API is provided as an alpha preview and may change without notice. Use at your own risk.

#### Signature {#resolvedchange-signature}

```typescript
readonly resolvedChange: ChangeInternal;
```
