{
  "title": "ReconciliationPath Interface",
  "summary": "The path of edits from the revision view where a change was meant to have been applied to the view where the edit that contains the change is actually applied. The path only contains edits that were successfully applied. This path is always empty for a change that has no concurrent edits.",
  "kind": "Interface",
  "members": {
    "IndexSignature": {
      "(indexer)": "/docs/apis/tree/reconciliationpath-interface#_indexer_-indexsignature"
    },
    "PropertySignature": {
      "length": "/docs/apis/tree/reconciliationpath-interface#length-propertysignature"
    }
  },
  "package": "@fluid-experimental/tree",
  "unscopedPackageName": "tree"
}

[//]: # (Do not edit this file. It is automatically generated by @fluidtools/api-markdown-documenter.)

The path of edits from the revision view where a change was meant to have been applied to the view where the edit that contains the change is actually applied. The path only contains edits that were successfully applied. This path is always empty for a change that has no concurrent edits.

WARNING: This API is provided as an alpha preview and may change without notice. Use at your own risk.

## Signature {#reconciliationpath-signature}

```typescript
export interface ReconciliationPath
```

## Properties

<table class="table table-striped table-hover">
  <thead>
    <tr>
      <th>
        Property
      </th>
      <th>
        Alerts
      </th>
      <th>
        Modifiers
      </th>
      <th>
        Type
      </th>
      <th>
        Description
      </th>
    </tr>
  </thead>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td>
        <a href='/docs/apis/tree/reconciliationpath-interface#length-propertysignature'>length</a>
      </td>
      <td>
        <code>ALPHA</code>
      </td>
      <td>
        <code>readonly</code>
      </td>
      <td>
        <span>number</span>
      </td>
      <td>
        The number of edits in the path.
      </td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

## Index Signatures

<table class="table table-striped table-hover">
  <thead>
    <tr>
      <th>
        IndexSignature
      </th>
      <th>
        Alerts
      </th>
      <th>
        Modifiers
      </th>
      <th>
        Description
      </th>
    </tr>
  </thead>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td>
        <a href='/docs/apis/tree/reconciliationpath-interface#_indexer_-indexsignature'>readonly [index: number]: ReconciliationEdit</a>
      </td>
      <td>
        <code>ALPHA</code>
      </td>
      <td>
        <code>readonly</code>
      </td>
      <td>
        Allows access to edit information.
      </td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

## Property Details

### length (ALPHA) {#length-propertysignature}

The number of edits in the path.

WARNING: This API is provided as an alpha preview and may change without notice. Use at your own risk.

#### Signature {#length-signature}

```typescript
readonly length: number;
```

## Index Signature Details

### readonly \[index: number\]: ReconciliationEdit (ALPHA) {#_indexer_-indexsignature}

Allows access to edit information.

WARNING: This API is provided as an alpha preview and may change without notice. Use at your own risk.

#### Signature {#_indexer_-signature}

```typescript
readonly [index: number]: ReconciliationEdit;
```
