{
  "title": "SharedTreeOptions_0_1_1 Interface",
  "summary": "Configuration options for a SharedTree with write format 0.1.1",
  "kind": "Interface",
  "members": {
    "PropertySignature": {
      "attributionId": "/docs/apis/tree/sharedtreeoptions_0_1_1-interface#attributionid-propertysignature",
      "summarizeHistory": "/docs/apis/tree/sharedtreeoptions_0_1_1-interface#summarizehistory-propertysignature"
    }
  },
  "package": "@fluid-experimental/tree",
  "unscopedPackageName": "tree"
}

[//]: # (Do not edit this file. It is automatically generated by @fluidtools/api-markdown-documenter.)

Configuration options for a SharedTree with write format 0.1.1

WARNING: This API is provided as an alpha preview and may change without notice. Use at your own risk.

## Signature {#sharedtreeoptions_0_1_1-signature}

```typescript
export interface SharedTreeOptions_0_1_1
```

## Properties

<table class="table table-striped table-hover">
  <thead>
    <tr>
      <th>
        Property
      </th>
      <th>
        Alerts
      </th>
      <th>
        Modifiers
      </th>
      <th>
        Type
      </th>
      <th>
        Description
      </th>
    </tr>
  </thead>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td>
        <a href='/docs/apis/tree/sharedtreeoptions_0_1_1-interface#attributionid-propertysignature'>attributionId</a>
      </td>
      <td>
        <code>ALPHA</code>
      </td>
      <td>
        <code>optional</code>
      </td>
      <td>
        <span><a href='/docs/apis/tree#attributionid-typealias'>AttributionId</a></span>
      </td>
      <td>
        a UUID that identifies the user of this tree; all node IDs generated by this tree will be associated with this UUID
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>
        <a href='/docs/apis/tree/sharedtreeoptions_0_1_1-interface#summarizehistory-propertysignature'>summarizeHistory</a>
      </td>
      <td>
        <code>ALPHA</code>
      </td>
      <td>
        <code>optional</code>
      </td>
      <td>
        <span>false &#124; {         uploadEditChunks: boolean;     }</span>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>
          Determines if the history is included in summaries and if edit chunks are uploaded when they are full.
        </p>
        <p>
          Warning: enabling history summarization incurs a permanent cost in the document. It is not possible to disable history summarization later once it has been enabled, and thus the history cannot be safely deleted.
        </p>
        <p>
          On 0.1.1 documents, due to current code limitations, this parameter is only impactful for newly created documents. <code>SharedTree</code>s which load existing documents will summarize history if and only if the loaded summary included history.
        </p>
        <p>
          The technical limitations here relate to clients with mixed versions collaborating. In the future we may allow modification of whether or not a particular document saves history, but only via a consensus mechanism. See the skipped test in SharedTreeFuzzTests.ts for more details on this issue. See docs/Breaking-Change-Migration for more details on the consensus scheme.
        </p>
      </td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

## Property Details

### attributionId (ALPHA) {#attributionid-propertysignature}

a UUID that identifies the user of this tree; all node IDs generated by this tree will be associated with this UUID

WARNING: This API is provided as an alpha preview and may change without notice. Use at your own risk.

#### Signature {#attributionid-signature}

```typescript
attributionId?: AttributionId;
```

### summarizeHistory (ALPHA) {#summarizehistory-propertysignature}

Determines if the history is included in summaries and if edit chunks are uploaded when they are full.

Warning: enabling history summarization incurs a permanent cost in the document. It is not possible to disable history summarization later once it has been enabled, and thus the history cannot be safely deleted.

On 0.1.1 documents, due to current code limitations, this parameter is only impactful for newly created documents. `SharedTree`s which load existing documents will summarize history if and only if the loaded summary included history.

The technical limitations here relate to clients with mixed versions collaborating. In the future we may allow modification of whether or not a particular document saves history, but only via a consensus mechanism. See the skipped test in SharedTreeFuzzTests.ts for more details on this issue. See docs/Breaking-Change-Migration for more details on the consensus scheme.

WARNING: This API is provided as an alpha preview and may change without notice. Use at your own risk.

#### Signature {#summarizehistory-signature}

```typescript
summarizeHistory?: false | {
        uploadEditChunks: boolean;
    };
```
