{
  "title": "SharedTreeEvent",
  "kind": "Enum",
  "members": {
    "EnumMember": {
      "EditCommitted": "/docs/apis/tree/sharedtreeevent-enum#editcommitted-enummember",
      "SequencedEditApplied": "/docs/apis/tree/sharedtreeevent-enum#sequencededitapplied-enummember"
    }
  },
  "package": "@fluid-experimental/tree",
  "unscopedPackageName": "tree"
}

[//]: # (Do not edit this file. It is automatically generated by @fluidtools/api-markdown-documenter.)

An event emitted by a `SharedTree` to indicate a state change. See [ISharedTreeEvents](/docs/apis/tree/isharedtreeevents-interface) for event argument information.

WARNING: This API is provided as an alpha preview and may change without notice. Use at your own risk.

## Signature {#sharedtreeevent-signature}

```typescript
export declare enum SharedTreeEvent
```

## Flags

<table class="table table-striped table-hover">
  <thead>
    <tr>
      <th>
        Flag
      </th>
      <th>
        Alerts
      </th>
      <th>
        Description
      </th>
    </tr>
  </thead>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td>
        <a href='/docs/apis/tree/sharedtreeevent-enum#editcommitted-enummember'>EditCommitted</a>
      </td>
      <td>
        <code>ALPHA</code>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>
          Note: It is _strongly_ recommended that you avoid this API and instead use the <code>viewChange</code> event on a <a href='/docs/apis/tree/checkout-class'>Checkout</a>. See &quot;Use a Checkout&quot; in the README for an example of how to create a checkout of a tree. The Checkout API is generally more user friendly and also avoids a class of bugs involving the interleaving of remote and local edits that can arise when querying the tree's <a href='/docs/apis/tree/logviewer-interface'>LogViewer</a> directly.
        </p>
        <p>
          An edit has been committed to the log. This happens when either:
        </p>
        <p>
          1. A locally generated edit is added to the log.
        </p>
        <p>
          2. A remotely generated edit is added to the log.
        </p>
        <p>
          Note that, for locally generated edits, this event will not be emitted again when that edit is sequenced. Passed the EditId of the committed edit, i.e. supports callbacks of type <a href='/docs/apis/tree#editcommittedhandler-typealias'>EditCommittedHandler</a>.
        </p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>
        <a href='/docs/apis/tree/sharedtreeevent-enum#sequencededitapplied-enummember'>SequencedEditApplied</a>
      </td>
      <td>
        <code>ALPHA</code>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>
          Note: It is _strongly_ recommended that you avoid this API and instead use the <code>viewChange</code> event on a <a href='/docs/apis/tree/checkout-class'>Checkout</a>. See &quot;Use a Checkout&quot; in the README for an example of how to create a checkout of a tree. The Checkout API is generally more user friendly and also avoids a class of bugs involving the interleaving of remote and local edits that can arise when querying the tree's <a href='/docs/apis/tree/logviewer-interface'>LogViewer</a> directly.
        </p>
        <p>
          A sequenced edit has been applied. This includes local edits though the callback is only invoked once the sequenced version is received. For edits that were local (see <a href='/docs/apis/tree/sequencededitappliedeventarguments-interface#waslocal-propertysignature'>wasLocal</a>, this callback will only be called once. For non-local edits, it may be called multiple times: the number of calls and when they occur depends on caching and is an implementation detail. Supports callbacks of type <a href='/docs/apis/tree#sequencededitappliedhandler-typealias'>SequencedEditAppliedHandler</a>.
        </p>
      </td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

### EditCommitted (ALPHA) {#editcommitted-enummember}

Note: It is \_strongly\_ recommended that you avoid this API and instead use the `viewChange` event on a [Checkout](/docs/apis/tree/checkout-class). See "Use a Checkout" in the README for an example of how to create a checkout of a tree. The Checkout API is generally more user friendly and also avoids a class of bugs involving the interleaving of remote and local edits that can arise when querying the tree's [LogViewer](/docs/apis/tree/logviewer-interface) directly.

An edit has been committed to the log. This happens when either:

1. A locally generated edit is added to the log.

2. A remotely generated edit is added to the log.

Note that, for locally generated edits, this event will not be emitted again when that edit is sequenced. Passed the EditId of the committed edit, i.e. supports callbacks of type [EditCommittedHandler](/docs/apis/tree#editcommittedhandler-typealias).

WARNING: This API is provided as an alpha preview and may change without notice. Use at your own risk.

#### Signature {#editcommitted-signature}

```typescript
EditCommitted = "committedEdit"
```

### SequencedEditApplied (ALPHA) {#sequencededitapplied-enummember}

Note: It is \_strongly\_ recommended that you avoid this API and instead use the `viewChange` event on a [Checkout](/docs/apis/tree/checkout-class). See "Use a Checkout" in the README for an example of how to create a checkout of a tree. The Checkout API is generally more user friendly and also avoids a class of bugs involving the interleaving of remote and local edits that can arise when querying the tree's [LogViewer](/docs/apis/tree/logviewer-interface) directly.

A sequenced edit has been applied. This includes local edits though the callback is only invoked once the sequenced version is received. For edits that were local (see [wasLocal](/docs/apis/tree/sequencededitappliedeventarguments-interface#waslocal-propertysignature), this callback will only be called once. For non-local edits, it may be called multiple times: the number of calls and when they occur depends on caching and is an implementation detail. Supports callbacks of type [SequencedEditAppliedHandler](/docs/apis/tree#sequencededitappliedhandler-typealias).

WARNING: This API is provided as an alpha preview and may change without notice. Use at your own risk.

#### Signature {#sequencededitapplied-signature}

```typescript
SequencedEditApplied = "sequencedEditApplied"
```
