{
  "title": "SharedTreeBaseOptions Interface",
  "summary": "Configuration options for SharedTree that are independent of write format versions.",
  "kind": "Interface",
  "members": {
    "PropertySignature": {
      "editEvictionFrequency": "/docs/apis/tree/sharedtreebaseoptions-interface#editevictionfrequency-propertysignature",
      "inMemoryHistorySize": "/docs/apis/tree/sharedtreebaseoptions-interface#inmemoryhistorysize-propertysignature"
    }
  },
  "package": "@fluid-experimental/tree",
  "unscopedPackageName": "tree"
}

[//]: # (Do not edit this file. It is automatically generated by @fluidtools/api-markdown-documenter.)

Configuration options for SharedTree that are independent of write format versions.

WARNING: This API is provided as an alpha preview and may change without notice. Use at your own risk.

## Signature {#sharedtreebaseoptions-signature}

```typescript
export interface SharedTreeBaseOptions
```

## Properties

<table class="table table-striped table-hover">
  <thead>
    <tr>
      <th>
        Property
      </th>
      <th>
        Alerts
      </th>
      <th>
        Modifiers
      </th>
      <th>
        Type
      </th>
      <th>
        Description
      </th>
    </tr>
  </thead>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td>
        <a href='/docs/apis/tree/sharedtreebaseoptions-interface#editevictionfrequency-propertysignature'>editEvictionFrequency</a>
      </td>
      <td>
        <code>ALPHA</code>
      </td>
      <td>
        <code>optional</code>
      </td>
      <td>
        <span>number</span>
      </td>
      <td>
        The rate at which edits are evicted from memory. This is a factor of the inMemoryHistorySize. For example, with the default frequency of inMemoryHistorySize * 2 and a size of 10, the log will evict once it reaches 20 sequenced edits down to 10 edits, also keeping any that are still in the collaboration window.
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>
        <a href='/docs/apis/tree/sharedtreebaseoptions-interface#inmemoryhistorysize-propertysignature'>inMemoryHistorySize</a>
      </td>
      <td>
        <code>ALPHA</code>
      </td>
      <td>
        <code>optional</code>
      </td>
      <td>
        <span>number</span>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>
          The target number of sequenced edits that the tree will try to store in memory. Depending on eviction frequency and the collaboration window, there can be more edits in memory at a given time. Edits in the collaboration window are not evicted.
        </p>
        <p>
          The size is set to infinity by default, meaning that all edits in session are kept within memory.
        </p>
      </td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

## Property Details

### editEvictionFrequency (ALPHA) {#editevictionfrequency-propertysignature}

The rate at which edits are evicted from memory. This is a factor of the inMemoryHistorySize. For example, with the default frequency of inMemoryHistorySize \* 2 and a size of 10, the log will evict once it reaches 20 sequenced edits down to 10 edits, also keeping any that are still in the collaboration window.

WARNING: This API is provided as an alpha preview and may change without notice. Use at your own risk.

#### Signature {#editevictionfrequency-signature}

```typescript
editEvictionFrequency?: number;
```

### inMemoryHistorySize (ALPHA) {#inmemoryhistorysize-propertysignature}

The target number of sequenced edits that the tree will try to store in memory. Depending on eviction frequency and the collaboration window, there can be more edits in memory at a given time. Edits in the collaboration window are not evicted.

The size is set to infinity by default, meaning that all edits in session are kept within memory.

WARNING: This API is provided as an alpha preview and may change without notice. Use at your own risk.

#### Signature {#inmemoryhistorysize-signature}

```typescript
inMemoryHistorySize?: number;
```
