{
  "title": "Side",
  "kind": "Enum",
  "members": {
    "EnumMember": {
      "After": "/docs/apis/tree/side-enum#after-enummember",
      "Before": "/docs/apis/tree/side-enum#before-enummember"
    }
  },
  "package": "@fluid-experimental/tree",
  "unscopedPackageName": "tree"
}

[//]: # (Do not edit this file. It is automatically generated by @fluidtools/api-markdown-documenter.)

Defines a place relative to sibling. The "outside" of a trait is the `undefined` sibling, so After `undefined` is the beginning of the trait, and before `undefined` is the end.

For this purpose, traits look like:

`{undefined} - {Node 0} - {Node 1} - ... - {Node N} - {undefined}`

Each `{value}` in the diagram is a possible sibling, which is either a Node or undefined. Each `-` in the above diagram is a `Place`, and can be describe as being `After` a particular `{sibling}` or `Before` it. This means that `After` `{undefined}` means the same `Place` as before the first node and `Before` `{undefined}` means the `Place` after the last Node.

Each place can be specified, (aka 'anchored') in two ways (relative to the sibling before or after): the choice of which way to anchor a place only matters when the kept across an edit, and thus evaluated in multiple contexts where the two place description may no longer evaluate to the same place.

WARNING: This API is provided as an alpha preview and may change without notice. Use at your own risk.

## Signature {#side-signature}

```typescript
export declare enum Side
```

## Flags

<table class="table table-striped table-hover">
  <thead>
    <tr>
      <th>
        Flag
      </th>
      <th>
        Alerts
      </th>
      <th>
        Description
      </th>
    </tr>
  </thead>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td>
        <a href='/docs/apis/tree/side-enum#after-enummember'>After</a>
      </td>
      <td>
        <code>ALPHA</code>
      </td>
      <td>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>
        <a href='/docs/apis/tree/side-enum#before-enummember'>Before</a>
      </td>
      <td>
        <code>ALPHA</code>
      </td>
      <td>
      </td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

### After (ALPHA) {#after-enummember}

WARNING: This API is provided as an alpha preview and may change without notice. Use at your own risk.

#### Signature {#after-signature}

```typescript
After = 1
```

### Before (ALPHA) {#before-enummember}

WARNING: This API is provided as an alpha preview and may change without notice. Use at your own risk.

#### Signature {#before-signature}

```typescript
Before = 0
```
