{
  "title": "StablePlaceInternal_0_0_2 Interface",
  "summary": "A location in a trait. This is NOT the location of a node, but a location where a node could be inserted: it is next to a sibling or at one end of the trait.\n\nTo be well formed, either `sibling` or `trait` must be defined, but not both.\n\nAny given insertion location can be described by two `StablePlace` objects, one with `Side.After` and one with `Side.Before`. For example, in a trait containing two strings 'foo' and 'bar', there are 6 different `StablePlace`s corresponding to 3 locations in the trait a new node could be inserted: at the start, before 'foo', after 'foo', before 'bar', after 'bar', and at the end. Neither of the two ways to specify the same location are considered to be after each other.\n\nThe anchor (`referenceSibling` or `referenceTrait`) used for a particular `StablePlace` can have an impact in collaborative scenarios.\n\n`StablePlace` objects can be conveniently constructed with the helper methods exported on a constant of the same name.",
  "kind": "Interface",
  "members": {
    "PropertySignature": {
      "referenceSibling": "/docs/apis/tree/stableplaceinternal_0_0_2-interface#referencesibling-propertysignature",
      "referenceTrait": "/docs/apis/tree/stableplaceinternal_0_0_2-interface#referencetrait-propertysignature",
      "side": "/docs/apis/tree/stableplaceinternal_0_0_2-interface#side-propertysignature"
    }
  },
  "package": "@fluid-experimental/tree",
  "unscopedPackageName": "tree"
}

[//]: # (Do not edit this file. It is automatically generated by @fluidtools/api-markdown-documenter.)

A location in a trait. This is NOT the location of a node, but a location where a node could be inserted: it is next to a sibling or at one end of the trait.

To be well formed, either `sibling` or `trait` must be defined, but not both.

Any given insertion location can be described by two `StablePlace` objects, one with `Side.After` and one with `Side.Before`. For example, in a trait containing two strings "foo" and "bar", there are 6 different `StablePlace`s corresponding to 3 locations in the trait a new node could be inserted: at the start, before "foo", after "foo", before "bar", after "bar", and at the end. Neither of the two ways to specify the same location are considered to be after each other.

The anchor (`referenceSibling` or `referenceTrait`) used for a particular `StablePlace` can have an impact in collaborative scenarios.

`StablePlace` objects can be conveniently constructed with the helper methods exported on a constant of the same name.

WARNING: This API is provided as an alpha preview and may change without notice. Use at your own risk.

## Signature {#stableplaceinternal_0_0_2-signature}

```typescript
export interface StablePlaceInternal_0_0_2
```

## Properties

<table class="table table-striped table-hover">
  <thead>
    <tr>
      <th>
        Property
      </th>
      <th>
        Alerts
      </th>
      <th>
        Modifiers
      </th>
      <th>
        Type
      </th>
      <th>
        Description
      </th>
    </tr>
  </thead>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td>
        <a href='/docs/apis/tree/stableplaceinternal_0_0_2-interface#referencesibling-propertysignature'>referenceSibling</a>
      </td>
      <td>
        <code>ALPHA</code>
      </td>
      <td>
        <code>optional</code>, <code>readonly</code>
      </td>
      <td>
        <span><a href='/docs/apis/tree#stablenodeid-typealias'>StableNodeId</a></span>
      </td>
      <td>
        The sibling to which this 'StablePlace' is anchored (by 'side'). If specified, referenceTrait must be unspecified.
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>
        <a href='/docs/apis/tree/stableplaceinternal_0_0_2-interface#referencetrait-propertysignature'>referenceTrait</a>
      </td>
      <td>
        <code>ALPHA</code>
      </td>
      <td>
        <code>optional</code>, <code>readonly</code>
      </td>
      <td>
        <span><a href='/docs/apis/tree/traitlocationinternal_0_0_2-interface'>TraitLocationInternal_0_0_2</a></span>
      </td>
      <td>
        The trait to which this 'StablePlace' is anchored (by 'side'). If specified, referenceSibling must be unspecified.
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>
        <a href='/docs/apis/tree/stableplaceinternal_0_0_2-interface#side-propertysignature'>side</a>
      </td>
      <td>
        <code>ALPHA</code>
      </td>
      <td>
        <code>readonly</code>
      </td>
      <td>
        <span><a href='/docs/apis/tree/side-enum'>Side</a></span>
      </td>
      <td>
        Where this StablePlace is relative to the sibling (if specified), or an end of the trait (if no sibling specified). If 'After' and there is no sibling, this StablePlace is after the front of the trait. If 'Before' and there is no sibling, this StablePlace is before the back of the trait.
      </td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

## Property Details

### referenceSibling (ALPHA) {#referencesibling-propertysignature}

The sibling to which this 'StablePlace' is anchored (by 'side'). If specified, referenceTrait must be unspecified.

WARNING: This API is provided as an alpha preview and may change without notice. Use at your own risk.

#### Signature {#referencesibling-signature}

```typescript
readonly referenceSibling?: StableNodeId;
```

### referenceTrait (ALPHA) {#referencetrait-propertysignature}

The trait to which this 'StablePlace' is anchored (by 'side'). If specified, referenceSibling must be unspecified.

WARNING: This API is provided as an alpha preview and may change without notice. Use at your own risk.

#### Signature {#referencetrait-signature}

```typescript
readonly referenceTrait?: TraitLocationInternal_0_0_2;
```

### side (ALPHA) {#side-propertysignature}

Where this StablePlace is relative to the sibling (if specified), or an end of the trait (if no sibling specified). If 'After' and there is no sibling, this StablePlace is after the front of the trait. If 'Before' and there is no sibling, this StablePlace is before the back of the trait.

WARNING: This API is provided as an alpha preview and may change without notice. Use at your own risk.

#### Signature {#side-signature}

```typescript
readonly side: Side;
```
