{
  "title": "StableRangeInternal Interface",
  "summary": "Specifies the range of nodes from `start` to `end` within a trait. Valid iff start and end are valid and are within the same trait and the start does not occur after the end in the trait.\n\nSee [StablePlace](/docs/apis/tree/stableplace-interface) for what it means for a place to be 'after' another place.",
  "kind": "Interface",
  "members": {
    "PropertySignature": {
      "end": "/docs/apis/tree/stablerangeinternal-interface#end-propertysignature",
      "start": "/docs/apis/tree/stablerangeinternal-interface#start-propertysignature"
    }
  },
  "package": "@fluid-experimental/tree",
  "unscopedPackageName": "tree"
}

[//]: # (Do not edit this file. It is automatically generated by @fluidtools/api-markdown-documenter.)

Specifies the range of nodes from `start` to `end` within a trait. Valid iff start and end are valid and are within the same trait and the start does not occur after the end in the trait.

See [StablePlace](/docs/apis/tree/stableplace-interface) for what it means for a place to be "after" another place.

WARNING: This API is provided as an alpha preview and may change without notice. Use at your own risk.

## Signature {#stablerangeinternal-signature}

```typescript
export interface StableRangeInternal
```

## Remarks {#stablerangeinternal-remarks}

`StableRange` objects can be conveniently constructed with the helper methods exported on a constant of the same name.

## Properties

<table class="table table-striped table-hover">
  <thead>
    <tr>
      <th>
        Property
      </th>
      <th>
        Alerts
      </th>
      <th>
        Modifiers
      </th>
      <th>
        Type
      </th>
      <th>
        Description
      </th>
    </tr>
  </thead>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td>
        <a href='/docs/apis/tree/stablerangeinternal-interface#end-propertysignature'>end</a>
      </td>
      <td>
        <code>ALPHA</code>
      </td>
      <td>
        <code>readonly</code>
      </td>
      <td>
        <span><a href='/docs/apis/tree/stableplaceinternal-interface'>StablePlaceInternal</a></span>
      </td>
      <td>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>
        <a href='/docs/apis/tree/stablerangeinternal-interface#start-propertysignature'>start</a>
      </td>
      <td>
        <code>ALPHA</code>
      </td>
      <td>
        <code>readonly</code>
      </td>
      <td>
        <span><a href='/docs/apis/tree/stableplaceinternal-interface'>StablePlaceInternal</a></span>
      </td>
      <td>
      </td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

## Property Details

### end (ALPHA) {#end-propertysignature}

WARNING: This API is provided as an alpha preview and may change without notice. Use at your own risk.

#### Signature {#end-signature}

```typescript
readonly end: StablePlaceInternal;
```

### start (ALPHA) {#start-propertysignature}

WARNING: This API is provided as an alpha preview and may change without notice. Use at your own risk.

#### Signature {#start-signature}

```typescript
readonly start: StablePlaceInternal;
```
