{"kind":"Interface","title":"IDirectoryDeleteSubDirectoryOperation Interface","summary":"Operation indicating a subdirectory should be deleted.","members":{"PropertySignature":{"path":"/docs/apis/map/idirectorydeletesubdirectoryoperation#path-PropertySignature","subdirName":"/docs/apis/map/idirectorydeletesubdirectoryoperation#subdirname-PropertySignature","type":"/docs/apis/map/idirectorydeletesubdirectoryoperation#type-PropertySignature"}},"package":"@fluidframework/map","unscopedPackageName":"map"}

[//]: # (Do not edit this file. It is automatically generated by API Documenter.)

[Packages](/docs/apis/) &gt; [@fluidframework/map](/docs/apis/map) &gt; [IDirectoryDeleteSubDirectoryOperation](/docs/apis/map/idirectorydeletesubdirectoryoperation)

Operation indicating a subdirectory should be deleted.

<b>Signature:</b>

```typescript
export interface IDirectoryDeleteSubDirectoryOperation 
```

## Properties

<table class="table table-striped table-hover property-list">
<caption>List of properties on this interface</caption>
  <thead>
    <tr>
     <th scope="col">Property</th>
 <th scope="col">Type</th>
 <th scope="col">Description</th>
    </tr>
  </thead>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td><a href='/docs/apis/map/idirectorydeletesubdirectoryoperation#path-PropertySignature'>path</a></td>
      <td>string</td>
      <td>Absolute path of the directory that contains the directory to be deleted.</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td><a href='/docs/apis/map/idirectorydeletesubdirectoryoperation#subdirname-PropertySignature'>subdirName</a></td>
      <td>string</td>
      <td>Name of the subdirectory to be deleted.</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td><a href='/docs/apis/map/idirectorydeletesubdirectoryoperation#type-PropertySignature'>type</a></td>
      <td>"deleteSubDirectory"</td>
      <td>String identifier of the operation type.</td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

<hr><div id=interface-details>

## Property Details {#properties-details}

### path {#path-PropertySignature}

Absolute path of the directory that contains the directory to be deleted.

<b>Signature:</b>

```typescript
path: string;
```

### subdirName {#subdirname-PropertySignature}

Name of the subdirectory to be deleted.

<b>Signature:</b>

```typescript
subdirName: string;
```

### type {#type-PropertySignature}

String identifier of the operation type.

<b>Signature:</b>

```typescript
type: "deleteSubDirectory";
```

</div>
