{"kind":"Interface","title":"DriverPreCheckInfo Interface","summary":"Information that can be returned by a lightweight, seperately exported driver function. Used to preanalyze a URL for driver compatibility and preload information.","members":{"PropertySignature":{"codeDetailsHint":"/docs/apis/driver-definitions/driverprecheckinfo#codedetailshint-PropertySignature","criticalBootDomains":"/docs/apis/driver-definitions/driverprecheckinfo#criticalbootdomains-PropertySignature"}},"package":"@fluidframework/driver-definitions","unscopedPackageName":"driver-definitions"}

[//]: # (Do not edit this file. It is automatically generated by API Documenter.)

[Packages](/docs/apis/) &gt; [@fluidframework/driver-definitions](/docs/apis/driver-definitions) &gt; [DriverPreCheckInfo](/docs/apis/driver-definitions/driverprecheckinfo)

Information that can be returned by a lightweight, seperately exported driver function. Used to preanalyze a URL for driver compatibility and preload information.

<b>Signature:</b>

```typescript
export interface DriverPreCheckInfo 
```

## Properties

<table class="table table-striped table-hover property-list">
<caption>List of properties on this interface</caption>
  <thead>
    <tr>
     <th scope="col">Property</th>
 <th scope="col">Type</th>
 <th scope="col">Description</th>
    </tr>
  </thead>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td><a href='/docs/apis/driver-definitions/driverprecheckinfo#codedetailshint-PropertySignature'>codeDetailsHint</a></td>
      <td>string</td>
      <td>A code details hint that can potentially be used to prefetch container code prior to having a snapshot.</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td><a href='/docs/apis/driver-definitions/driverprecheckinfo#criticalbootdomains-PropertySignature'>criticalBootDomains</a></td>
      <td>string[]</td>
      <td>Domains that will be connected to on the critical boot path. Hosts can choose to preconnect to these for improved performance.</td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

<hr><div id=interface-details>

## Property Details {#properties-details}

### codeDetailsHint {#codedetailshint-PropertySignature}

A code details hint that can potentially be used to prefetch container code prior to having a snapshot.

<b>Signature:</b>

```typescript
codeDetailsHint?: string;
```

### criticalBootDomains {#criticalbootdomains-PropertySignature}

Domains that will be connected to on the critical boot path. Hosts can choose to preconnect to these for improved performance.

<b>Signature:</b>

```typescript
criticalBootDomains?: string[];
```

</div>
