{
  "title": "IDirectoryDataObject Interface",
  "summary": "Defines the in-memory object structure to be used for the conversion to/from serialized.",
  "kind": "Interface",
  "members": {
    "PropertySignature": {
      "ci": "/docs/apis/fluid-framework/idirectorydataobject-interface#ci-propertysignature",
      "storage": "/docs/apis/fluid-framework/idirectorydataobject-interface#storage-propertysignature",
      "subdirectories": "/docs/apis/fluid-framework/idirectorydataobject-interface#subdirectories-propertysignature"
    }
  },
  "package": "fluid-framework",
  "unscopedPackageName": "fluid-framework"
}

[//]: # (Do not edit this file. It is automatically generated by @fluidtools/api-markdown-documenter.)

Defines the in-memory object structure to be used for the conversion to/from serialized.

WARNING: This API is provided as an alpha preview and may change without notice. Use at your own risk.

## Signature {#idirectorydataobject-signature}

```typescript
export interface IDirectoryDataObject
```

## Remarks {#idirectorydataobject-remarks}

Directly used in [JSON.stringify](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/JSON/stringify), direct result from [JSON.parse](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/JSON/parse).

## Properties

<table class="table table-striped table-hover">
  <thead>
    <tr>
      <th>
        Property
      </th>
      <th>
        Alerts
      </th>
      <th>
        Modifiers
      </th>
      <th>
        Type
      </th>
      <th>
        Description
      </th>
    </tr>
  </thead>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td>
        <a href='/docs/apis/fluid-framework/idirectorydataobject-interface#ci-propertysignature'>ci</a>
      </td>
      <td>
        <code>ALPHA</code>
      </td>
      <td>
        <code>optional</code>
      </td>
      <td>
        <span><a href='/docs/apis/fluid-framework/icreateinfo-interface'>ICreateInfo</a></span>
      </td>
      <td>
        Create info for the sub directory. Since directories with same name can get deleted/created by multiple clients asynchronously, this info helps us to determine whether the ops where for the current instance of sub directory or not and whether to process them or not based on that. Summaries which were not produced which this change will not have this info and in that case we can still run in eventual consistency issues but that is no worse than the state before this change.
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>
        <a href='/docs/apis/fluid-framework/idirectorydataobject-interface#storage-propertysignature'>storage</a>
      </td>
      <td>
        <code>ALPHA</code>
      </td>
      <td>
        <code>optional</code>
      </td>
      <td>
        <span>{         [key: string]: <a href='/docs/apis/fluid-framework/iserializablevalue-interface'>ISerializableValue</a>;     }</span>
      </td>
      <td>
        Key/value date set by the user.
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>
        <a href='/docs/apis/fluid-framework/idirectorydataobject-interface#subdirectories-propertysignature'>subdirectories</a>
      </td>
      <td>
        <code>ALPHA</code>
      </td>
      <td>
        <code>optional</code>
      </td>
      <td>
        <span>{         [subdirName: string]: <a href='/docs/apis/fluid-framework/idirectorydataobject-interface'>IDirectoryDataObject</a>;     }</span>
      </td>
      <td>
        Recursive sub-directories <a href='/docs/apis/fluid-framework/idirectorydataobject-interface'>objects</a>.
      </td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

## Property Details

### ci (ALPHA) {#ci-propertysignature}

Create info for the sub directory. Since directories with same name can get deleted/created by multiple clients asynchronously, this info helps us to determine whether the ops where for the current instance of sub directory or not and whether to process them or not based on that. Summaries which were not produced which this change will not have this info and in that case we can still run in eventual consistency issues but that is no worse than the state before this change.

WARNING: This API is provided as an alpha preview and may change without notice. Use at your own risk.

#### Signature {#ci-signature}

```typescript
ci?: ICreateInfo;
```

### storage (ALPHA) {#storage-propertysignature}

Key/value date set by the user.

WARNING: This API is provided as an alpha preview and may change without notice. Use at your own risk.

#### Signature {#storage-signature}

```typescript
storage?: {
        [key: string]: ISerializableValue;
    };
```

### subdirectories (ALPHA) {#subdirectories-propertysignature}

Recursive sub-directories [objects](/docs/apis/fluid-framework/idirectorydataobject-interface).

WARNING: This API is provided as an alpha preview and may change without notice. Use at your own risk.

#### Signature {#subdirectories-signature}

```typescript
subdirectories?: {
        [subdirName: string]: IDirectoryDataObject;
    };
```
