{
  "title": "ISharedDirectoryEvents Interface",
  "summary": "Events emitted in response to changes to the directory data.",
  "kind": "Interface",
  "members": {
    "CallSignature": {
      "(call)": "/docs/apis/fluid-framework/ishareddirectoryevents-interface#_call__3-callsignature"
    }
  },
  "package": "fluid-framework",
  "unscopedPackageName": "fluid-framework"
}

[//]: # (Do not edit this file. It is automatically generated by @fluidtools/api-markdown-documenter.)

Events emitted in response to changes to the directory data.

WARNING: This API is provided as an alpha preview and may change without notice. Use at your own risk.

## Signature {#ishareddirectoryevents-signature}

```typescript
export interface ISharedDirectoryEvents extends ISharedObjectEvents
```

**Extends:** [ISharedObjectEvents](/docs/apis/shared-object-base/isharedobjectevents-interface)

## Remarks {#ishareddirectoryevents-remarks}

These events only emit on the [ISharedDirectory](/docs/apis/fluid-framework/ishareddirectory-interface) itself, and not on subdirectories.

## Call Signatures

<table class="table table-striped table-hover">
  <thead>
    <tr>
      <th>
        CallSignature
      </th>
      <th>
        Alerts
      </th>
      <th>
        Description
      </th>
    </tr>
  </thead>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td>
        <a href='/docs/apis/fluid-framework/ishareddirectoryevents-interface#_call_-callsignature'>(event: &quot;valueChanged&quot;, listener: (changed: IDirectoryValueChanged, local: boolean, target: IEventThisPlaceHolder) =&gt; void): any</a>
      </td>
      <td>
        <code>ALPHA</code>
      </td>
      <td>
        Emitted when a key is set or deleted. This is emitted for any key in the <a href='/docs/apis/fluid-framework/ishareddirectory-interface'>ISharedDirectory</a> or any subdirectory.
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>
        <a href='/docs/apis/fluid-framework/ishareddirectoryevents-interface#_call__1-callsignature'>(event: &quot;clear&quot;, listener: (local: boolean, target: IEventThisPlaceHolder) =&gt; void): any</a>
      </td>
      <td>
        <code>ALPHA</code>
      </td>
      <td>
        Emitted when the <a href='/docs/apis/fluid-framework/ishareddirectory-interface'>ISharedDirectory</a> is cleared.
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>
        <a href='/docs/apis/fluid-framework/ishareddirectoryevents-interface#_call__2-callsignature'>(event: &quot;subDirectoryCreated&quot;, listener: (path: string, local: boolean, target: IEventThisPlaceHolder) =&gt; void): any</a>
      </td>
      <td>
        <code>ALPHA</code>
      </td>
      <td>
        Emitted when a subdirectory is created.
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>
        <a href='/docs/apis/fluid-framework/ishareddirectoryevents-interface#_call__3-callsignature'>(event: &quot;subDirectoryDeleted&quot;, listener: (path: string, local: boolean, target: IEventThisPlaceHolder) =&gt; void): any</a>
      </td>
      <td>
        <code>ALPHA</code>
      </td>
      <td>
        Emitted when a subdirectory is deleted.
      </td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

## Call Signature Details

### (event: "valueChanged", listener: (changed: IDirectoryValueChanged, local: boolean, target: IEventThisPlaceHolder) =&gt; void): any (ALPHA) {#_call_-callsignature}

Emitted when a key is set or deleted. This is emitted for any key in the [ISharedDirectory](/docs/apis/fluid-framework/ishareddirectory-interface) or any subdirectory.

WARNING: This API is provided as an alpha preview and may change without notice. Use at your own risk.

#### Signature {#_call_-signature}

```typescript
(event: "valueChanged", listener: (changed: IDirectoryValueChanged, local: boolean, target: IEventThisPlaceHolder) => void): any;
```

#### Remarks {#_call_-remarks}

Listener parameters:

- `changed` - Information on the key that changed, its value prior to the change, and the path to the key that changed.

- `local` - Whether the change originated from this client.

- `target` - The [ISharedDirectory](/docs/apis/fluid-framework/ishareddirectory-interface) itself.

### (event: "clear", listener: (local: boolean, target: IEventThisPlaceHolder) =&gt; void): any (ALPHA) {#_call__1-callsignature}

Emitted when the [ISharedDirectory](/docs/apis/fluid-framework/ishareddirectory-interface) is cleared.

WARNING: This API is provided as an alpha preview and may change without notice. Use at your own risk.

#### Signature {#_call__1-signature}

```typescript
(event: "clear", listener: (local: boolean, target: IEventThisPlaceHolder) => void): any;
```

#### Remarks {#_call__1-remarks}

Listener parameters:

- `local` - Whether the clear originated from this client.

- `target` - The [ISharedDirectory](/docs/apis/fluid-framework/ishareddirectory-interface) itself.

### (event: "subDirectoryCreated", listener: (path: string, local: boolean, target: IEventThisPlaceHolder) =&gt; void): any (ALPHA) {#_call__2-callsignature}

Emitted when a subdirectory is created.

WARNING: This API is provided as an alpha preview and may change without notice. Use at your own risk.

#### Signature {#_call__2-signature}

```typescript
(event: "subDirectoryCreated", listener: (path: string, local: boolean, target: IEventThisPlaceHolder) => void): any;
```

#### Remarks {#_call__2-remarks}

Listener parameters:

- `path` - The relative path to the subdirectory that is created. It is relative from the object which raises the event.

- `local` - Whether the create originated from the this client.

- `target` - The [ISharedDirectory](/docs/apis/fluid-framework/ishareddirectory-interface) itself.

### (event: "subDirectoryDeleted", listener: (path: string, local: boolean, target: IEventThisPlaceHolder) =&gt; void): any (ALPHA) {#_call__3-callsignature}

Emitted when a subdirectory is deleted.

WARNING: This API is provided as an alpha preview and may change without notice. Use at your own risk.

#### Signature {#_call__3-signature}

```typescript
(event: "subDirectoryDeleted", listener: (path: string, local: boolean, target: IEventThisPlaceHolder) => void): any;
```

#### Remarks {#_call__3-remarks}

Listener parameters:

- `path` - The relative path to the subdirectory that is deleted. It is relative from the object which raises the event.

- `local` - Whether the delete originated from the this client.

- `target` - The [ISharedDirectory](/docs/apis/fluid-framework/ishareddirectory-interface) itself.
