{
  "title": "IFluidDevtools Interface",
  "summary": "Fluid Devtools. A single, global instance is used to generate and communicate stats associated with the general Fluid runtime (i.e., it is not associated with any single Framework entity).",
  "kind": "Interface",
  "members": {
    "MethodSignature": {
      "closeContainerDevtools": "/docs/apis/devtools-core/ifluiddevtools-interface#closecontainerdevtools-methodsignature",
      "registerContainerDevtools": "/docs/apis/devtools-core/ifluiddevtools-interface#registercontainerdevtools-methodsignature"
    }
  },
  "package": "@fluid-experimental/devtools-core",
  "unscopedPackageName": "devtools-core"
}

[//]: # (Do not edit this file. It is automatically generated by @fluidtools/api-markdown-documenter.)

[Packages](/docs/apis/) &gt; [@fluid-experimental/devtools-core](/docs/apis/devtools-core) &gt; [IFluidDevtools](/docs/apis/devtools-core/ifluiddevtools-interface)

Fluid Devtools. A single, global instance is used to generate and communicate stats associated with the general Fluid runtime (i.e., it is not associated with any single Framework entity).

## Signature {#ifluiddevtools-signature}

```typescript
export interface IFluidDevtools extends IDisposable
```

**Extends:** IDisposable

## Remarks {#ifluiddevtools-remarks}

Supports registering _@fluidframework/container-definitions\#IContainer_s for Container-level stats (via [registerContainerDevtools](/docs/apis/devtools-core/ifluiddevtools-interface#registercontainerdevtools-methodsignature)).

The lifetime of the associated singleton is bound by that of the Window (globalThis), and it will be automatically disposed of on Window unload. If you wish to dispose of it earlier, you may call its _@fluidframework/core-interfaces\#IDisposable.dispose_ method.

## Methods

<table class="table table-striped table-hover">
  <thead>
    <tr>
      <th>
        Method
      </th>
      <th>
        Return Type
      </th>
      <th>
        Description
      </th>
    </tr>
  </thead>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td>
        <a href='/docs/apis/devtools-core/ifluiddevtools-interface#closecontainerdevtools-methodsignature'>closeContainerDevtools</a>
      </td>
      <td>
        <span>void</span>
      </td>
      <td>
        Removes the Container with the specified <a href='/docs/apis/devtools-core#containerkey-typealias'>ContainerKey</a> from the Devtools.
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>
        <a href='/docs/apis/devtools-core/ifluiddevtools-interface#registercontainerdevtools-methodsignature'>registerContainerDevtools</a>
      </td>
      <td>
        <span>void</span>
      </td>
      <td>
        Registers the provided <span><i>@fluidframework/container-definitions#IContainer</i></span> with the Devtools to begin generating stats for it.
      </td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

## Method Details

### closeContainerDevtools {#closecontainerdevtools-methodsignature}

Removes the Container with the specified [ContainerKey](/docs/apis/devtools-core#containerkey-typealias) from the Devtools.

#### Signature {#closecontainerdevtools-signature}

```typescript
closeContainerDevtools(containerKey: ContainerKey): void;
```

#### Remarks {#closecontainerdevtools-remarks}

Will no-op if no such Container is registered.

#### Parameters {#closecontainerdevtools-parameters}

<table class="table table-striped table-hover">
  <thead>
    <tr>
      <th>
        Parameter
      </th>
      <th>
        Type
      </th>
      <th>
        Description
      </th>
    </tr>
  </thead>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td>
        containerKey
      </td>
      <td>
        <span><a href='/docs/apis/devtools-core#containerkey-typealias'>ContainerKey</a></span>
      </td>
      <td>
      </td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

### registerContainerDevtools {#registercontainerdevtools-methodsignature}

Registers the provided _@fluidframework/container-definitions\#IContainer_ with the Devtools to begin generating stats for it.

#### Signature {#registercontainerdevtools-signature}

```typescript
registerContainerDevtools(props: ContainerDevtoolsProps): void;
```

#### Remarks {#registercontainerdevtools-remarks}

To remove the Container from the Devtools, call [closeContainerDevtools](/docs/apis/devtools-core/ifluiddevtools-interface#closecontainerdevtools-methodsignature).

#### Parameters {#registercontainerdevtools-parameters}

<table class="table table-striped table-hover">
  <thead>
    <tr>
      <th>
        Parameter
      </th>
      <th>
        Type
      </th>
      <th>
        Description
      </th>
    </tr>
  </thead>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td>
        props
      </td>
      <td>
        <span><a href='/docs/apis/devtools-core/containerdevtoolsprops-interface'>ContainerDevtoolsProps</a></span>
      </td>
      <td>
      </td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

#### Throws {#registercontainerdevtools-throws}

Will throw if devtools have already been registered for the specified [ContainerKey](/docs/apis/devtools-core#containerkey-typealias).
