{
  "title": "AttachState",
  "kind": "Enum",
  "members": {
    "EnumMember": {
      "Attached": "/docs/apis/container-definitions/attachstate-enum#attached-enummember",
      "Attaching": "/docs/apis/container-definitions/attachstate-enum#attaching-enummember",
      "Detached": "/docs/apis/container-definitions/attachstate-enum#detached-enummember"
    }
  },
  "package": "@fluidframework/container-definitions",
  "unscopedPackageName": "container-definitions"
}

[//]: # (Do not edit this file. It is automatically generated by @fluidtools/api-markdown-documenter.)

The attachment state of some Fluid data (e.g. a container or data store), denoting whether it is uploaded to the service. The transition from detached to attached state is a one-way transition.

## Signature {#attachstate-signature}

```typescript
export declare enum AttachState
```

## Flags

<table class="table table-striped table-hover">
  <thead>
    <tr>
      <th>
        Flag
      </th>
      <th>
        Description
      </th>
    </tr>
  </thead>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td>
        <a href='/docs/apis/container-definitions/attachstate-enum#attached-enummember'>Attached</a>
      </td>
      <td>
        In attached state, the data has completed upload to the service. It can be accessed by other clients after reaching attached state.
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>
        <a href='/docs/apis/container-definitions/attachstate-enum#attaching-enummember'>Attaching</a>
      </td>
      <td>
        In attaching state, the data has started the upload to the service, but has not yet completed.
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>
        <a href='/docs/apis/container-definitions/attachstate-enum#detached-enummember'>Detached</a>
      </td>
      <td>
        In detached state, the data is only present on the local client's machine. It has not yet been uploaded to the service.
      </td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

### Attached {#attached-enummember}

In attached state, the data has completed upload to the service. It can be accessed by other clients after reaching attached state.

#### Signature {#attached-signature}

```typescript
Attached = "Attached"
```

### Attaching {#attaching-enummember}

In attaching state, the data has started the upload to the service, but has not yet completed.

#### Signature {#attaching-signature}

```typescript
Attaching = "Attaching"
```

### Detached {#detached-enummember}

In detached state, the data is only present on the local client's machine. It has not yet been uploaded to the service.

#### Signature {#detached-signature}

```typescript
Detached = "Detached"
```
