{
  "title": "ConnectionState Namespace",
  "summary": "Namespace for the different connection states a container can be in. PLEASE NOTE: The sequence of the numerical values does no correspond to the typical connection state progression.",
  "kind": "Namespace",
  "members": {
    "TypeAlias": {
      "CatchingUp": "/docs/apis/container-definitions/connectionstate-namespace#catchingup-typealias",
      "Connected": "/docs/apis/container-definitions/connectionstate-namespace#connected-typealias",
      "Disconnected": "/docs/apis/container-definitions/connectionstate-namespace#disconnected-typealias",
      "EstablishingConnection": "/docs/apis/container-definitions/connectionstate-namespace#establishingconnection-typealias"
    }
  },
  "package": "@fluidframework/container-definitions",
  "unscopedPackageName": "container-definitions"
}

[//]: # (Do not edit this file. It is automatically generated by @fluidtools/api-markdown-documenter.)

Namespace for the different connection states a container can be in. PLEASE NOTE: The sequence of the numerical values does no correspond to the typical connection state progression.

## Signature {#connectionstate-signature}

```typescript
export declare namespace ConnectionState
```

## Types

<table class="table table-striped table-hover">
  <thead>
    <tr>
      <th>
        TypeAlias
      </th>
      <th>
        Description
      </th>
    </tr>
  </thead>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td>
        <a href='/docs/apis/container-definitions/connectionstate-namespace#catchingup-typealias'>CatchingUp</a>
      </td>
      <td>
        The container has an inbound connection only, and is catching up to the latest known state from the service.
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>
        <a href='/docs/apis/container-definitions/connectionstate-namespace#connected-typealias'>Connected</a>
      </td>
      <td>
        The container is fully connected and syncing.
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>
        <a href='/docs/apis/container-definitions/connectionstate-namespace#disconnected-typealias'>Disconnected</a>
      </td>
      <td>
        The container is not connected to the delta server. Note - When in this state the container may be about to reconnect, or may remain disconnected until explicitly told to connect.
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>
        <a href='/docs/apis/container-definitions/connectionstate-namespace#establishingconnection-typealias'>EstablishingConnection</a>
      </td>
      <td>
        The container is disconnected but actively trying to establish a new connection. PLEASE NOTE that this numerical value falls out of the order you may expect for this state.
      </td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

## Type Details

### CatchingUp {#catchingup-typealias}

The container has an inbound connection only, and is catching up to the latest known state from the service.

#### Signature {#catchingup-signature}

```typescript
type CatchingUp = 1;
```

### Connected {#connected-typealias}

The container is fully connected and syncing.

#### Signature {#connected-signature}

```typescript
type Connected = 2;
```

### Disconnected {#disconnected-typealias}

The container is not connected to the delta server. Note - When in this state the container may be about to reconnect, or may remain disconnected until explicitly told to connect.

#### Signature {#disconnected-signature}

```typescript
type Disconnected = 0;
```

### EstablishingConnection {#establishingconnection-typealias}

The container is disconnected but actively trying to establish a new connection. PLEASE NOTE that this numerical value falls out of the order you may expect for this state.

#### Signature {#establishingconnection-signature}

```typescript
type EstablishingConnection = 3;
```
