{
  "title": "IGetPendingLocalStateProps Interface",
  "summary": "Defines list of properties expected for getPendingLocalState",
  "kind": "Interface",
  "members": {
    "PropertySignature": {
      "notifyImminentClosure": "/docs/apis/container-definitions/igetpendinglocalstateprops-interface#notifyimminentclosure-propertysignature",
      "stopBlobAttachingSignal": "/docs/apis/container-definitions/igetpendinglocalstateprops-interface#stopblobattachingsignal-propertysignature"
    }
  },
  "package": "@fluidframework/container-definitions",
  "unscopedPackageName": "container-definitions"
}

[//]: # (Do not edit this file. It is automatically generated by @fluidtools/api-markdown-documenter.)

Defines list of properties expected for getPendingLocalState

WARNING: This API is provided as an alpha preview and may change without notice. Use at your own risk.

## Signature {#igetpendinglocalstateprops-signature}

```typescript
export interface IGetPendingLocalStateProps
```

## Properties

<table class="table table-striped table-hover">
  <thead>
    <tr>
      <th>
        Property
      </th>
      <th>
        Alerts
      </th>
      <th>
        Modifiers
      </th>
      <th>
        Type
      </th>
      <th>
        Description
      </th>
    </tr>
  </thead>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td>
        <a href='/docs/apis/container-definitions/igetpendinglocalstateprops-interface#notifyimminentclosure-propertysignature'>notifyImminentClosure</a>
      </td>
      <td>
        <code>ALPHA</code>
      </td>
      <td>
        <code>readonly</code>
      </td>
      <td>
        <span>boolean</span>
      </td>
      <td>
        Indicates the container will close after getting the pending state. Used internally to wait for blobs to be attached to a DDS and collect generated ops before closing.
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>
        <a href='/docs/apis/container-definitions/igetpendinglocalstateprops-interface#stopblobattachingsignal-propertysignature'>stopBlobAttachingSignal</a>
      </td>
      <td>
        <code>ALPHA</code>
      </td>
      <td>
        <code>optional</code>, <code>readonly</code>
      </td>
      <td>
        <span>AbortSignal</span>
      </td>
      <td>
        Abort signal to stop waiting for blobs to get attached to a DDS. When triggered, only blobs attached will be collected in the pending state. Intended to be used in the very rare scenario in which getLocalPendingState go stale due to a blob failed to be referenced. Such a blob will be lost but the rest of the state will be preserved and collected.
      </td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

## Property Details

### notifyImminentClosure (ALPHA) {#notifyimminentclosure-propertysignature}

Indicates the container will close after getting the pending state. Used internally to wait for blobs to be attached to a DDS and collect generated ops before closing.

WARNING: This API is provided as an alpha preview and may change without notice. Use at your own risk.

#### Signature {#notifyimminentclosure-signature}

```typescript
readonly notifyImminentClosure: boolean;
```

### stopBlobAttachingSignal (ALPHA) {#stopblobattachingsignal-propertysignature}

Abort signal to stop waiting for blobs to get attached to a DDS. When triggered, only blobs attached will be collected in the pending state. Intended to be used in the very rare scenario in which getLocalPendingState go stale due to a blob failed to be referenced. Such a blob will be lost but the rest of the state will be preserved and collected.

WARNING: This API is provided as an alpha preview and may change without notice. Use at your own risk.

#### Signature {#stopblobattachingsignal-signature}

```typescript
readonly stopBlobAttachingSignal?: AbortSignal;
```
