<!-- THIS IS AN AUTOGENERATED FILE. DO NOT EDIT THIS FILE DIRECTLY. -->

# Routerlicious v3.0.0

## BREAKING CHANGE: Foreman lambda removed

The Foreman lambda in @fluidframework/server-lambdas has been removed. It has not been used for several releases. There is no replacement.

## Use RawAxiosRequestHeaders instead of AxiosRequestHeaders in BasicRestWrapper constructor.

The `BasicRestWrapper` class constructor now uses `RawAxiosRequestHeaders` from the `axios` package instead of `AxiosRequestHeaders`. This applies to both the `defaultHeaders` and `refreshDefaultHeaders` arguments.

This change was made in [#17419](https://github.com/microsoft/FluidFramework/pull/17419).

## server-services-client: New `messageBrokerId` property added to `ISession`

The `ISession` interface was updated with new field `messageBrokerId` that would be assigned when message broker is set to Event Hubs.

## server-services-client: New internal exports

The `@fluidframework/server-services-client` package now exports the following items. These APIs are intended for internal use within the Fluid Framework only. They will be marked as internal APIs in a future release.

-   `ITimeoutContext`: Binds and tracks timeout info through a given codepath. The timeout can be checked manually to stop exit out of the codepath if the timeout has been exceeded.
-   `getGlobalTimeoutContext`: Retrieves the global ITimeoutContext instance if available. If not available, returns a NullTimeoutContext instance which behaves as a no-op.
-   `setGlobalTimeoutContext`: Sets the global ITimeoutContext instance.

This change was made in [#17522](https://github.com/microsoft/FluidFramework/pull/17522).

## Updated @fluidframework/common-utils

The @fluidframework/common-utils dependency has been upgraded to v3.1.0. [See the full changelog.](https://github.com/microsoft/FluidFramework/blob/main/common/lib/common-utils/CHANGELOG.md#310)

## Updated @fluidframework/common-definitions

The @fluidframework/common-definitions dependency has been upgraded to v1.1.0. [See the full changelog.](https://github.com/microsoft/FluidFramework/blob/main/common/lib/common-definitions/CHANGELOG.md#110)

## Updated @fluidframework/protocol-definitions

The @fluidframework/protocol-definitions dependency has been upgraded to v3.1.0. [See the full changelog.](https://github.com/microsoft/FluidFramework/blob/main/common/lib/protocol-definitions/CHANGELOG.md#310)
