{"kind":"Interface","title":"ISharedSummaryBlock Interface","summary":"Shared summary block interface. A shared summary block is part of the summary but it does not generate any ops. The set on this interface must only be called in response to a remote op. Basically, if we replay same ops, the set of calls on this interface to set data should be the same. This is critical because the object does not generate ops of its own, but relies on the above principle to maintain eventual consistency and to summarize.","members":{"MethodSignature":{"get":"/docs/apis/shared-summary-block/isharedsummaryblock#get-MethodSignature","set":"/docs/apis/shared-summary-block/isharedsummaryblock#set-MethodSignature"}},"package":"@fluidframework/shared-summary-block","unscopedPackageName":"shared-summary-block"}

[//]: # (Do not edit this file. It is automatically generated by API Documenter.)

[Packages](/docs/apis/) &gt; [@fluidframework/shared-summary-block](/docs/apis/shared-summary-block) &gt; [ISharedSummaryBlock](/docs/apis/shared-summary-block/isharedsummaryblock)

Shared summary block interface. A shared summary block is part of the summary but it does not generate any ops. The set on this interface must only be called in response to a remote op. Basically, if we replay same ops, the set of calls on this interface to set data should be the same. This is critical because the object does not generate ops of its own, but relies on the above principle to maintain eventual consistency and to summarize.

<b>Signature:</b>

```typescript
export interface ISharedSummaryBlock extends ISharedObject 
```
<b>Extends:</b> [ISharedObject](/docs/apis/shared-object-base/isharedobject)

## Methods

<table class="table table-striped table-hover method-list">
<caption>List of methods on this interface</caption>
  <thead>
    <tr>
     <th scope="col">Method</th>
 <th scope="col">Description</th>
    </tr>
  </thead>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td><a href='/docs/apis/shared-summary-block/isharedsummaryblock#get-MethodSignature'>get(key)</a></td>
      <td>Retrieves the given key from the map.</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td><a href='/docs/apis/shared-summary-block/isharedsummaryblock#set-MethodSignature'>set(key, value)</a></td>
      <td>Sets the value stored at key to the provided value.</td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

<hr><div id=interface-details>

## Method Details {#methods-details}

### get {#get-MethodSignature}

Retrieves the given key from the map.

<b>Signature:</b>

```typescript
get<T>(key: string): Jsonable<T>;
```

#### Parameters {#get-MethodSignature-parameters}


<table class="table table-striped table-hover param-list">
<caption>List of parameters</caption>
  <thead>
    <tr>
     <th scope="col">Parameter</th>
 <th scope="col">Type</th>
 <th scope="col">Description</th>
    </tr>
  </thead>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td>key</td>
      <td>string</td>
      <td>Key to retrieve from.</td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

#### Returns {#get-MethodSignature-returns}


The stored value, or undefined if the key is not set.

<b>Return type(s):</b> [Jsonable](/docs/apis/datastore-definitions#jsonable-TypeAlias)<!-- -->&lt;T&gt;

### set {#set-MethodSignature}

Sets the value stored at key to the provided value.

<b>Signature:</b>

```typescript
set<T>(key: string, value: Jsonable<T>): void;
```

#### Parameters {#set-MethodSignature-parameters}


<table class="table table-striped table-hover param-list">
<caption>List of parameters</caption>
  <thead>
    <tr>
     <th scope="col">Parameter</th>
 <th scope="col">Type</th>
 <th scope="col">Description</th>
    </tr>
  </thead>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td>key</td>
      <td>string</td>
      <td>Key to set at.</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>value</td>
      <td><a href='/docs/apis/datastore-definitions#jsonable-TypeAlias'>Jsonable</a><T></td>
      <td>Jsonable type value to set.</td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>


</div>
