{
  "title": "IEntry Interface",
  "summary": "Cache entry. Identifies file that this entry belongs to, and type of content stored in it.",
  "kind": "Interface",
  "members": {
    "PropertySignature": {
      "key": "/docs/apis/odsp-driver-definitions/ientry-interface#key-propertysignature",
      "type": "/docs/apis/odsp-driver-definitions/ientry-interface#type-propertysignature"
    }
  },
  "package": "@fluidframework/odsp-driver-definitions",
  "unscopedPackageName": "odsp-driver-definitions"
}

[//]: # (Do not edit this file. It is automatically generated by @fluidtools/api-markdown-documenter.)

Cache entry. Identifies file that this entry belongs to, and type of content stored in it.

WARNING: This API is provided as an alpha preview and may change without notice. Use at your own risk.

## Signature {#ientry-signature}

```typescript
export interface IEntry
```

## Properties

<table class="table table-striped table-hover">
  <thead>
    <tr>
      <th>
        Property
      </th>
      <th>
        Alerts
      </th>
      <th>
        Type
      </th>
      <th>
        Description
      </th>
    </tr>
  </thead>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td>
        <a href='/docs/apis/odsp-driver-definitions/ientry-interface#key-propertysignature'>key</a>
      </td>
      <td>
        <code>ALPHA</code>
      </td>
      <td>
        <span>string</span>
      </td>
      <td>
        Identifies individual entry for a given file and type. Each file can have multiple cache entries associated with it. This property identifies a particular instance of entry. For example, for blobs it will be unique ID of the blob in a file. For batch of ops, it can be starting op sequence number. For types that have only one entry (like snapshots), it will be empty string.
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>
        <a href='/docs/apis/odsp-driver-definitions/ientry-interface#type-propertysignature'>type</a>
      </td>
      <td>
        <code>ALPHA</code>
      </td>
      <td>
        <span><a href='/docs/apis/odsp-driver-definitions#cachecontenttype-typealias'>CacheContentType</a></span>
      </td>
      <td>
        Identifies type of entry for a given file. Each file can have multiple types of entries associated with it. For example, it can be snapshot, blob, ops, etc.
      </td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

## Property Details

### key (ALPHA) {#key-propertysignature}

Identifies individual entry for a given file and type. Each file can have multiple cache entries associated with it. This property identifies a particular instance of entry. For example, for blobs it will be unique ID of the blob in a file. For batch of ops, it can be starting op sequence number. For types that have only one entry (like snapshots), it will be empty string.

WARNING: This API is provided as an alpha preview and may change without notice. Use at your own risk.

#### Signature {#key-signature}

```typescript
key: string;
```

### type (ALPHA) {#type-propertysignature}

Identifies type of entry for a given file. Each file can have multiple types of entries associated with it. For example, it can be snapshot, blob, ops, etc.

WARNING: This API is provided as an alpha preview and may change without notice. Use at your own risk.

#### Signature {#type-signature}

```typescript
type: CacheContentType;
```
