{
  "title": "IFileEntry Interface",
  "summary": "",
  "kind": "Interface",
  "members": {
    "PropertySignature": {
      "docId": "/docs/apis/odsp-driver-definitions/ifileentry-interface#docid-propertysignature",
      "resolvedUrl": "/docs/apis/odsp-driver-definitions/ifileentry-interface#resolvedurl-propertysignature"
    }
  },
  "package": "@fluidframework/odsp-driver-definitions",
  "unscopedPackageName": "odsp-driver-definitions"
}

[//]: # (Do not edit this file. It is automatically generated by @fluidtools/api-markdown-documenter.)

WARNING: This API is provided as an alpha preview and may change without notice. Use at your own risk.

## Signature {#ifileentry-signature}

```typescript
export interface IFileEntry
```

## Properties

<table class="table table-striped table-hover">
  <thead>
    <tr>
      <th>
        Property
      </th>
      <th>
        Alerts
      </th>
      <th>
        Type
      </th>
      <th>
        Description
      </th>
    </tr>
  </thead>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td>
        <a href='/docs/apis/odsp-driver-definitions/ifileentry-interface#docid-propertysignature'>docId</a>
      </td>
      <td>
        <code>ALPHA</code>
      </td>
      <td>
        <span>string</span>
      </td>
      <td>
        Unique and stable ID of the document. Driver guarantees that docId is stable ID uniquely identifying document.
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>
        <a href='/docs/apis/odsp-driver-definitions/ifileentry-interface#resolvedurl-propertysignature'>resolvedUrl</a>
      </td>
      <td>
        <code>ALPHA</code>
      </td>
      <td>
        <span><a href='/docs/apis/driver-definitions/iresolvedurl-interface'>IResolvedUrl</a></span>
      </td>
      <td>
        Resolved URI is provided for additional versatility - host can use it to identify file in storage, and (as example) delete all cached entries for a file if user requests so. This is IOdspResolvedUrl in case of ODSP driver.
      </td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

## Property Details

### docId (ALPHA) {#docid-propertysignature}

Unique and stable ID of the document. Driver guarantees that docId is stable ID uniquely identifying document.

WARNING: This API is provided as an alpha preview and may change without notice. Use at your own risk.

#### Signature {#docid-signature}

```typescript
docId: string;
```

### resolvedUrl (ALPHA) {#resolvedurl-propertysignature}

Resolved URI is provided for additional versatility - host can use it to identify file in storage, and (as example) delete all cached entries for a file if user requests so. This is IOdspResolvedUrl in case of ODSP driver.

WARNING: This API is provided as an alpha preview and may change without notice. Use at your own risk.

#### Signature {#resolvedurl-signature}

```typescript
resolvedUrl: IResolvedUrl;
```
