{
  "title": "IOdspErrorAugmentations Interface",
  "summary": "",
  "kind": "Interface",
  "members": {
    "PropertySignature": {
      "facetCodes": "/docs/apis/odsp-driver-definitions/iodsperroraugmentations-interface#facetcodes-propertysignature",
      "redirectLocation": "/docs/apis/odsp-driver-definitions/iodsperroraugmentations-interface#redirectlocation-propertysignature",
      "serverEpoch": "/docs/apis/odsp-driver-definitions/iodsperroraugmentations-interface#serverepoch-propertysignature"
    }
  },
  "package": "@fluidframework/odsp-driver-definitions",
  "unscopedPackageName": "odsp-driver-definitions"
}

[//]: # (Do not edit this file. It is automatically generated by @fluidtools/api-markdown-documenter.)

WARNING: This API is provided as an alpha preview and may change without notice. Use at your own risk.

## Signature {#iodsperroraugmentations-signature}

```typescript
export interface IOdspErrorAugmentations
```

## Properties

<table class="table table-striped table-hover">
  <thead>
    <tr>
      <th>
        Property
      </th>
      <th>
        Alerts
      </th>
      <th>
        Modifiers
      </th>
      <th>
        Type
      </th>
      <th>
        Description
      </th>
    </tr>
  </thead>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td>
        <a href='/docs/apis/odsp-driver-definitions/iodsperroraugmentations-interface#facetcodes-propertysignature'>facetCodes</a>
      </td>
      <td>
        <code>ALPHA</code>
      </td>
      <td>
        <code>optional</code>
      </td>
      <td>
        <span>string[]</span>
      </td>
      <td>
        It is array of error codes included in error response from server.
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>
        <a href='/docs/apis/odsp-driver-definitions/iodsperroraugmentations-interface#redirectlocation-propertysignature'>redirectLocation</a>
      </td>
      <td>
        <code>ALPHA</code>
      </td>
      <td>
        <code>optional</code>
      </td>
      <td>
        <span>string</span>
      </td>
      <td>
        It is the redirection url at which the network call should have been made. It is due to change in site domain of the file on server.
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>
        <a href='/docs/apis/odsp-driver-definitions/iodsperroraugmentations-interface#serverepoch-propertysignature'>serverEpoch</a>
      </td>
      <td>
        <code>ALPHA</code>
      </td>
      <td>
        <code>optional</code>
      </td>
      <td>
        <span>string</span>
      </td>
      <td>
        Server epoch indicates when the file was last modified. Used to detect modifications outside Fluid's services
      </td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

## Property Details

### facetCodes (ALPHA) {#facetcodes-propertysignature}

It is array of error codes included in error response from server.

WARNING: This API is provided as an alpha preview and may change without notice. Use at your own risk.

#### Signature {#facetcodes-signature}

```typescript
facetCodes?: string[];
```

### redirectLocation (ALPHA) {#redirectlocation-propertysignature}

It is the redirection url at which the network call should have been made. It is due to change in site domain of the file on server.

WARNING: This API is provided as an alpha preview and may change without notice. Use at your own risk.

#### Signature {#redirectlocation-signature}

```typescript
redirectLocation?: string;
```

### serverEpoch (ALPHA) {#serverepoch-propertysignature}

Server epoch indicates when the file was last modified. Used to detect modifications outside Fluid's services

WARNING: This API is provided as an alpha preview and may change without notice. Use at your own risk.

#### Signature {#serverepoch-signature}

```typescript
serverEpoch?: string;
```
