{
  "title": "IOpsCachingPolicy Interface",
  "summary": "",
  "kind": "Interface",
  "members": {
    "PropertySignature": {
      "batchSize": "/docs/apis/odsp-driver-definitions/iopscachingpolicy-interface#batchsize-propertysignature",
      "timerGranularity": "/docs/apis/odsp-driver-definitions/iopscachingpolicy-interface#timergranularity-propertysignature",
      "totalOpsToCache": "/docs/apis/odsp-driver-definitions/iopscachingpolicy-interface#totalopstocache-propertysignature"
    }
  },
  "package": "@fluidframework/odsp-driver-definitions",
  "unscopedPackageName": "odsp-driver-definitions"
}

[//]: # (Do not edit this file. It is automatically generated by @fluidtools/api-markdown-documenter.)

WARNING: This API is provided as an alpha preview and may change without notice. Use at your own risk.

## Signature {#iopscachingpolicy-signature}

```typescript
export interface IOpsCachingPolicy
```

## Properties

<table class="table table-striped table-hover">
  <thead>
    <tr>
      <th>
        Property
      </th>
      <th>
        Alerts
      </th>
      <th>
        Modifiers
      </th>
      <th>
        Type
      </th>
      <th>
        Description
      </th>
    </tr>
  </thead>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td>
        <a href='/docs/apis/odsp-driver-definitions/iopscachingpolicy-interface#batchsize-propertysignature'>batchSize</a>
      </td>
      <td>
        <code>ALPHA</code>
      </td>
      <td>
        <code>optional</code>
      </td>
      <td>
        <span>number</span>
      </td>
      <td>
        Batch size. Controls how many ops are grouped together as single cache entry The bigger the number, the more efficient it is (less reads &amp; writes) At the same time, big number means we wait for so many ops to accumulate, which increases chances and number of trailing ops that would not be flushed to cache when user closes tab Use any number below 1 to disable caching Default: 100
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>
        <a href='/docs/apis/odsp-driver-definitions/iopscachingpolicy-interface#timergranularity-propertysignature'>timerGranularity</a>
      </td>
      <td>
        <code>ALPHA</code>
      </td>
      <td>
        <code>optional</code>
      </td>
      <td>
        <span>number</span>
      </td>
      <td>
        To reduce the problem of losing trailing ops when using big batch sizes, host could specify how often driver should flush ops it has not flushed yet. -1 means do not use timer. Measured in ms. Default: 5000
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>
        <a href='/docs/apis/odsp-driver-definitions/iopscachingpolicy-interface#totalopstocache-propertysignature'>totalOpsToCache</a>
      </td>
      <td>
        <code>ALPHA</code>
      </td>
      <td>
        <code>optional</code>
      </td>
      <td>
        <span>number</span>
      </td>
      <td>
        Total number of ops to cache. When we reach that number, ops caching stops Default: 5000
      </td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

## Property Details

### batchSize (ALPHA) {#batchsize-propertysignature}

Batch size. Controls how many ops are grouped together as single cache entry The bigger the number, the more efficient it is (less reads &amp; writes) At the same time, big number means we wait for so many ops to accumulate, which increases chances and number of trailing ops that would not be flushed to cache when user closes tab Use any number below 1 to disable caching Default: 100

WARNING: This API is provided as an alpha preview and may change without notice. Use at your own risk.

#### Signature {#batchsize-signature}

```typescript
batchSize?: number;
```

### timerGranularity (ALPHA) {#timergranularity-propertysignature}

To reduce the problem of losing trailing ops when using big batch sizes, host could specify how often driver should flush ops it has not flushed yet. -1 means do not use timer. Measured in ms. Default: 5000

WARNING: This API is provided as an alpha preview and may change without notice. Use at your own risk.

#### Signature {#timergranularity-signature}

```typescript
timerGranularity?: number;
```

### totalOpsToCache (ALPHA) {#totalopstocache-propertysignature}

Total number of ops to cache. When we reach that number, ops caching stops Default: 5000

WARNING: This API is provided as an alpha preview and may change without notice. Use at your own risk.

#### Signature {#totalopstocache-signature}

```typescript
totalOpsToCache?: number;
```
