{
  "title": "ShareLinkInfoType Interface",
  "summary": "Sharing link data created for the ODSP item. Contains information about either sharing link created while creating a new file or a redeemable share link created when loading an existing file",
  "kind": "Interface",
  "members": {
    "PropertySignature": {
      "createLink": "/docs/apis/odsp-driver-definitions/sharelinkinfotype-interface#createlink-propertysignature",
      "sharingLinkToRedeem": "/docs/apis/odsp-driver-definitions/sharelinkinfotype-interface#sharinglinktoredeem-propertysignature"
    }
  },
  "package": "@fluidframework/odsp-driver-definitions",
  "unscopedPackageName": "odsp-driver-definitions"
}

[//]: # (Do not edit this file. It is automatically generated by @fluidtools/api-markdown-documenter.)

Sharing link data created for the ODSP item. Contains information about either sharing link created while creating a new file or a redeemable share link created when loading an existing file

WARNING: This API is provided as an alpha preview and may change without notice. Use at your own risk.

## Signature {#sharelinkinfotype-signature}

```typescript
export interface ShareLinkInfoType
```

## Properties

<table class="table table-striped table-hover">
  <thead>
    <tr>
      <th>
        Property
      </th>
      <th>
        Alerts
      </th>
      <th>
        Modifiers
      </th>
      <th>
        Type
      </th>
      <th>
        Description
      </th>
    </tr>
  </thead>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td>
        <a href='/docs/apis/odsp-driver-definitions/sharelinkinfotype-interface#createlink-propertysignature'>createLink</a>
      </td>
      <td>
        <code>ALPHA</code>
      </td>
      <td>
        <code>optional</code>
      </td>
      <td>
        <span>{         type?: <a href='/docs/apis/odsp-driver-definitions/sharelinktypes-enum'>ShareLinkTypes</a> &#124; <a href='/docs/apis/odsp-driver-definitions/isharinglinkkind-interface'>ISharingLinkKind</a>;         link?: string &#124; <a href='/docs/apis/odsp-driver-definitions/isharinglink-interface'>ISharingLink</a>;         error?: any;         shareId?: string;     }</span>
      </td>
      <td>
        We create a new file in ODSP with the /snapshot api call. Applications then need to make a separate apis call to create a sharing link for that file. To reduce the number of network calls, ODSP now provides a feature where we can create a share link along with creating a file by passing a query parameter called createShareLink (deprecated) or createLinkScope and createLinkRole. createLink object below saves the information from the /snapshot api response.
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>
        <a href='/docs/apis/odsp-driver-definitions/sharelinkinfotype-interface#sharinglinktoredeem-propertysignature'>sharingLinkToRedeem</a>
      </td>
      <td>
        <code>ALPHA</code>
      </td>
      <td>
        <code>optional</code>
      </td>
      <td>
        <span>string</span>
      </td>
      <td>
        This is used to save the network calls while doing trees/latest call as if the client does not have permission then this link can be redeemed for the permissions in the same network call.
      </td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

## Property Details

### createLink (ALPHA) {#createlink-propertysignature}

We create a new file in ODSP with the /snapshot api call. Applications then need to make a separate apis call to create a sharing link for that file. To reduce the number of network calls, ODSP now provides a feature where we can create a share link along with creating a file by passing a query parameter called createShareLink (deprecated) or createLinkScope and createLinkRole. createLink object below saves the information from the /snapshot api response.

WARNING: This API is provided as an alpha preview and may change without notice. Use at your own risk.

#### Signature {#createlink-signature}

```typescript
createLink?: {
        type?: ShareLinkTypes | ISharingLinkKind;
        link?: string | ISharingLink;
        error?: any;
        shareId?: string;
    };
```

### sharingLinkToRedeem (ALPHA) {#sharinglinktoredeem-propertysignature}

This is used to save the network calls while doing trees/latest call as if the client does not have permission then this link can be redeemed for the permissions in the same network call.

WARNING: This API is provided as an alpha preview and may change without notice. Use at your own risk.

#### Signature {#sharinglinktoredeem-signature}

```typescript
sharingLinkToRedeem?: string;
```
