{
  "title": "TokenFetchOptions Interface",
  "summary": "Represents access token fetch options",
  "kind": "Interface",
  "members": {
    "PropertySignature": {
      "claims": "/docs/apis/odsp-driver-definitions/tokenfetchoptions-interface#claims-propertysignature",
      "refresh": "/docs/apis/odsp-driver-definitions/tokenfetchoptions-interface#refresh-propertysignature",
      "tenantId": "/docs/apis/odsp-driver-definitions/tokenfetchoptions-interface#tenantid-propertysignature"
    }
  },
  "package": "@fluidframework/odsp-driver-definitions",
  "unscopedPackageName": "odsp-driver-definitions"
}

[//]: # (Do not edit this file. It is automatically generated by @fluidtools/api-markdown-documenter.)

Represents access token fetch options

WARNING: This API is provided as an alpha preview and may change without notice. Use at your own risk.

## Signature {#tokenfetchoptions-signature}

```typescript
export interface TokenFetchOptions
```

## Properties

<table class="table table-striped table-hover">
  <thead>
    <tr>
      <th>
        Property
      </th>
      <th>
        Alerts
      </th>
      <th>
        Modifiers
      </th>
      <th>
        Type
      </th>
      <th>
        Description
      </th>
    </tr>
  </thead>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td>
        <a href='/docs/apis/odsp-driver-definitions/tokenfetchoptions-interface#claims-propertysignature'>claims</a>
      </td>
      <td>
        <code>ALPHA</code>
      </td>
      <td>
        <code>optional</code>
      </td>
      <td>
        <span>string</span>
      </td>
      <td>
        Claims that have to be passed with token fetch request. These can be used to specify additional information that must be passed to token authority.
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>
        <a href='/docs/apis/odsp-driver-definitions/tokenfetchoptions-interface#refresh-propertysignature'>refresh</a>
      </td>
      <td>
        <code>ALPHA</code>
      </td>
      <td>
      </td>
      <td>
        <span>boolean</span>
      </td>
      <td>
        Value indicating whether fresh token has to be returned. If false then it is okay to return cached unexpired token if available.
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>
        <a href='/docs/apis/odsp-driver-definitions/tokenfetchoptions-interface#tenantid-propertysignature'>tenantId</a>
      </td>
      <td>
        <code>ALPHA</code>
      </td>
      <td>
        <code>optional</code>
      </td>
      <td>
        <span>string</span>
      </td>
      <td>
        Tenant id of authority that must be handling token fetch. If it is not specified then it is up to token fetching logic to determine which tenant authority to use to issue access token.
      </td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

## Property Details

### claims (ALPHA) {#claims-propertysignature}

Claims that have to be passed with token fetch request. These can be used to specify additional information that must be passed to token authority.

WARNING: This API is provided as an alpha preview and may change without notice. Use at your own risk.

#### Signature {#claims-signature}

```typescript
claims?: string;
```

### refresh (ALPHA) {#refresh-propertysignature}

Value indicating whether fresh token has to be returned. If false then it is okay to return cached unexpired token if available.

WARNING: This API is provided as an alpha preview and may change without notice. Use at your own risk.

#### Signature {#refresh-signature}

```typescript
refresh: boolean;
```

### tenantId (ALPHA) {#tenantid-propertysignature}

Tenant id of authority that must be handling token fetch. If it is not specified then it is up to token fetching logic to determine which tenant authority to use to issue access token.

WARNING: This API is provided as an alpha preview and may change without notice. Use at your own risk.

#### Signature {#tenantid-signature}

```typescript
tenantId?: string;
```
