{
  "title": "IProgress Interface",
  "summary": "Interface describing an object passed to various network APIs. It allows caller to control cancellation, as well as learn about any delays.",
  "kind": "Interface",
  "members": {
    "PropertySignature": {
      "cancel": "/docs/apis/driver-utils/iprogress-interface#cancel-propertysignature"
    },
    "MethodSignature": {
      "onRetry": "/docs/apis/driver-utils/iprogress-interface#onretry-methodsignature"
    }
  },
  "package": "@fluidframework/driver-utils",
  "unscopedPackageName": "driver-utils"
}

[//]: # (Do not edit this file. It is automatically generated by @fluidtools/api-markdown-documenter.)

[Packages](/docs/apis/) &gt; [@fluidframework/driver-utils](/docs/apis/driver-utils) &gt; [IProgress](/docs/apis/driver-utils/iprogress-interface)

Interface describing an object passed to various network APIs. It allows caller to control cancellation, as well as learn about any delays.

## Signature {#iprogress-signature}

```typescript
export interface IProgress
```

## Properties

<table class="table table-striped table-hover">
  <thead>
    <tr>
      <th>
        Property
      </th>
      <th>
        Modifiers
      </th>
      <th>
        Type
      </th>
      <th>
        Description
      </th>
    </tr>
  </thead>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td>
        <a href='/docs/apis/driver-utils/iprogress-interface#cancel-propertysignature'>cancel</a>
      </td>
      <td>
        <code>optional</code>
      </td>
      <td>
        <span>AbortSignal</span>
      </td>
      <td>
        Abort signal used to cancel operation.
      </td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

## Methods

<table class="table table-striped table-hover">
  <thead>
    <tr>
      <th>
        Method
      </th>
      <th>
        Modifiers
      </th>
      <th>
        Return Type
      </th>
      <th>
        Description
      </th>
    </tr>
  </thead>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td>
        <a href='/docs/apis/driver-utils/iprogress-interface#onretry-methodsignature'>onRetry</a>
      </td>
      <td>
        <code>optional</code>
      </td>
      <td>
        <span>void</span>
      </td>
      <td>
        Called whenever api returns cancellable error and the call is going to be retried. Any exception thrown from this call back result in cancellation of operation and propagation of thrown exception.
      </td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

## Property Details

### cancel {#cancel-propertysignature}

Abort signal used to cancel operation.

#### Signature {#cancel-signature}

```typescript
cancel?: AbortSignal;
```

#### Remarks {#cancel-remarks}

Note that most of the layers do not use this signal yet. We need to change that over time. Please consult with API documentation / implementation. Note that number of layers may not check this signal while holding this request in a queue, so it may take a while it takes effect. This can be improved in the future.

The layers in question are:

- driver (RateLimiter)

- runWithRetry

## Method Details

### onRetry {#onretry-methodsignature}

Called whenever api returns cancellable error and the call is going to be retried. Any exception thrown from this call back result in cancellation of operation and propagation of thrown exception.

#### Signature {#onretry-signature}

```typescript
onRetry?(delayInMs: number, error: any): void;
```

#### Parameters {#onretry-parameters}

<table class="table table-striped table-hover">
  <thead>
    <tr>
      <th>
        Parameter
      </th>
      <th>
        Type
      </th>
      <th>
        Description
      </th>
    </tr>
  </thead>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td>
        delayInMs
      </td>
      <td>
        <span>number</span>
      </td>
      <td>
        delay before next retry. This value will depend on internal back-off logic, as well as information provided by service (like 429 error asking to wait for some time before retry)
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>
        error
      </td>
      <td>
        <span>any</span>
      </td>
      <td>
        error object returned from the call.
      </td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>
