docs/content/docs/deep/dataobject-aqueduct.md, before:

---
title: Encapsulating data with DataObject
menuPosition: 7
aliases:
  - "/docs/concepts/dataobject-aqueduct/"
---

In the previous section we introduced distributed data structures and demonstrated how to use them. We'll now discuss
how to combine those distributed data structures with custom code (business logic) to create modular, reusable pieces.

<!-- IMPORTANT: Don't manually edit the auto-generated content below. Instead, edit the source file (look at the path
     argument) and then run "npm run readme:update" from the root of the repo. That will update all autogenerated
     content, so you should commit the resulting changes. -->

<!-- AUTO-GENERATED-CONTENT:START (INCLUDE:path=packages/framework/aqueduct/README.md&start=3&end=-6) -->

The Aqueduct is a library for building Fluid objects and Fluid containers within the Fluid Framework. Its goal is to
provide a thin base layer over the existing Fluid Framework interfaces that allows developers to get started quickly.

## Fluid object development

Fluid object development consists of developing the data object and the corresponding data object factory. The data
object defines the logic of your Fluid object, whereas the data object factory defines how to initialize your object.

## Data object development

`DataObject` and `PureDataObject` are the two base classes provided by the library.

### DataObject

The [DataObject][] class extends [PureDataObject](#puredataobject) and provides the following additional functionality:

- A `root` SharedDirectory that makes creating and storing distributed data structures and objects easy.
- Blob storage implementation that makes it easier to store and retrieve blobs.

**Note:** Most developers will want to use the `DataObject` as their base class to extend.

### PureDataObject

[PureDataObject][] provides the following functionality:

- Basic set of interface implementations to be loadable in a Fluid container.
- Functions for managing the Fluid object lifecycle.
  - `initializingFirstTime(props: S)` - called only the first time a Fluid object is initialized and only on the first
    client on which it loads.
  - `initializingFromExisting()` - called every time except the first time a Fluid object is initialized; that is, every
    time an instance is loaded from a previously created instance.
  - `hasInitialized()` - called every time after `initializingFirstTime` or `initializingFromExisting` executes
- Helper functions for creating and getting other data objects in the same container.

**Note:** You probably don't want to inherit from this data object directly unless you are creating another base data
object class. If you have a data object that doesn't use distributed data structures you should use Container Services
to manage your object.

### DataObject example

In the below example we have a simple data object, *Clicker*, that will render a value alongside a button the the page.
Every time the button is pressed the value will increment. Because this data object renders to the DOM it also extends
`IFluidHTMLView`.

```jsx
export class Clicker extends DataObject implements IFluidHTMLView {
    public static get Name() { return "clicker"; }

    public get IFluidHTMLView() { return this; }

    private _counter: SharedCounter | undefined;

    protected async initializingFirstTime() {
        const counter = SharedCounter.create(this.runtime);
        this.root.set("clicks", counter.handle);
    }

    protected async hasInitialized() {
        const counterHandle = this.root.get<IFluidHandle<SharedCounter>>("clicks");
        this._counter = await counterHandle.get();
    }

    public render(div: HTMLElement) {
        ReactDOM.render(
            <CounterReactView counter={this.counter} />,
            div,
        );
        return div;
    }

    private get counter() {
        if (this._counter === undefined) {
            throw new Error("SharedCounter not initialized");
        }
        return this._counter;
    }
}
```

## DataObjectFactory development

The `DataObjectFactory` is used to create a Fluid object and to initialize a data object within the context of a
Container. The factory can live alongside a data object or within a different package. The `DataObjectFactory` defines
the distributed data structures used within the data object as well as any Fluid objects it depends on.

The Aqueduct offers a factory for each of the data objects provided.

### More details

- [DataObjectFactory][]
- [PureDataObjectFactory][]

### DataObjectFactory example

In the below example we build a `DataObjectFactory` for the [Clicker](#dataobject-example) example above. To build a
`DataObjectFactory`, we need to provide factories for the distributed data structures we are using inside of our
`DataObject`. In the above example we store a handle to a `SharedCounter` in `this.root` to track our `"clicks"`. The
`DataObject` comes with the `SharedDirectory` (`this.root`) already initialized, so we just need to add the factory for
`SharedCounter`.

```typescript
export const ClickerInstantiationFactory = new DataObjectFactory(
    Clicker.Name,
    Clicker,
    [SharedCounter.getFactory()], // distributed data structures
    {}, // Provider Symbols see below
);
```

This factory can then create Clickers when provided a creating instance context.

```typescript
const myClicker = ClickerInstantiationFactory.createInstance(this.context) as Clicker;
```

### Providers in data objects

The `this.providers` object on `PureDataObject` is initialized in the constructor and is generated based on Providers
provided by the Container. To access a specific provider you need to:

1. Define the type in the generic on `PureDataObject`/`DataObject`
2. Add the symbol to your factory (see [DataObjectFactory Example](#dataobjectfactory-example) below)

In the below example we have an `IFluidUserInfo` interface that looks like this:

```typescript
interface IFluidUserInfo {
    readonly userCount: number;
}
```

On our example we want to declare that we want the `IFluidUserInfo` Provider and get the `userCount` if the Container
provides the `IFluidUserInfo` provider.

```typescript
export class MyExample extends DataObject<IFluidUserInfo> {
    protected async initializingFirstTime() {
        const userInfo = await this.providers.IFluidUserInfo;
        if(userInfo) {
            console.log(userInfo.userCount);
        }
    }
}

// Note: we have to define the symbol to the IFluidUserInfo that we declared above. This is compile time checked.
export const ClickerInstantiationFactory = new DataObjectFactory(
    Clicker.Name
    Clicker,
    [], // distributed data structures
    {IFluidUserInfo}, // Provider Symbols see below
);
```

## Container development

A Container is a collection of data objects and functionality that produce an experience. Containers hold the instances
of data objects as well as defining the data objects that can be created within the Container. Because of this data
objects cannot be consumed except for when they are within a Container.

The Aqueduct library provides the
[ContainerRuntimeFactoryWithDefaultDataStore](./src/containerRuntimeFactories/containerRuntimeFactoryWithDefaultDataStore.ts)
that enables you as a container developer to:

- Define the registry of data objects that can be created
- Declare the default data object
- Use [provider entries](#provider-entries-development)
- Declare Container level [Request Handlers](#container-level-request-handlers)

## Container object example

In the below example we will write a Container that exposes the above [Clicker](#dataobject-example) using the
[Clicker Factory](#dataobjectfactory-example). You will notice below that the Container developer defines the
registry name (data object type) of the Fluid object. We also pass in the type of data object we want to be the default.
The default data object is created the first time the Container is created.

```typescript
export fluidExport = new ContainerRuntimeFactoryWithDefaultDataStore(
  ClickerInstantiationFactory.type, // Default data object type
  ClickerInstantiationFactory.registryEntry, // Fluid object registry
  [], // Provider Entries
  [], // Request Handler Routes
);
```

## Provider entries development

The container developer can optionally provide a registry of `ProviderEntry` objects into the container. A ProviderEntry
is defined as follows:

```typescript
interface ProviderEntry<T extends keyof IFluidObject> {
    type: T;
    provider: FluidProvider<T>
}
```

The `type` must be a keyof `IFluidObject`. This basically means that it needs to be the name of an interfaces that
extends off of `IFluidObject`. The `provider` must be something that provides the interface defined in `type`. The
`DependencyContainer` we use in the `@fluidframework/synthesize` package defines the following `FluidObjectProvider`
types:

```typescript
type FluidObjectProvider<T extends keyof IFluidObject> =
    IFluidObject[T]
    | Promise<IFluidObject[T]>
    | ((dependencyContainer: DependencyContainer) => IFluidObject[T])
    | ((dependencyContainer: DependencyContainer) => Promise<IFluidObject[T]>);
```

```typescript
IFluidObject[T]
```

An object that implements the interface.

```typescript
Promise<IFluidObject[T]>
```

A Promise to an object that implements the interface

```typescript
(dependencyContainer: DependencyContainer) => IFluidObject[T]
```

A factory that will return the object.

```typescript
(dependencyContainer: DependencyContainer) => Promise<IFluidObject[T]>
```

A factory that will return a Promise to the object.

## Container-level request handlers

You can provide custom request handlers to the container. These request handlers are injected after system handlers but
before the `DataObject` get function. Request handlers allow you to intercept requests made to the container and return
custom responses.

Consider a scenario where you want to create a random color generator. I could create a RequestHandler that when someone
makes a request to the Container for `{url:"color"}` will intercept and return a custom `IResponse` of `{ status:200,
type:"text/plain", value:"blue"}`.

We use custom handlers to build the Container Services pattern.

<!-- AUTO-GENERATED-CONTENT:END -->

<!-- AUTO-GENERATED-CONTENT:START (INCLUDE:path=docs/_includes/links.md) -->
<!-- Links -->

<!-- Concepts -->

[Fluid container]: {{< relref "containers-runtime.md" >}}

<!-- Packages -->

[Aqueduct]: {{< relref "/docs/apis/aqueduct.md" >}}
[fluid-framework]: {{< relref "/docs/apis/fluid-framework.md" >}}

<!-- Classes and interfaces -->

[ContainerRuntimeFactoryWithDefaultDataStore]: {{< relref "/docs/apis/aqueduct/containerruntimefactorywithdefaultdatastore.md" >}}
[DataObject]: {{< relref "/docs/apis/aqueduct/dataobject.md" >}}
[DataObjectFactory]: {{< relref "/docs/apis/aqueduct/dataobjectfactory.md" >}}
[Ink]: {{< relref "/docs/apis/ink/ink.md" >}}
[PureDataObject]: {{< relref "/docs/apis/aqueduct/puredataobject.md" >}}
[PureDataObjectFactory]: {{< relref "/docs/apis/aqueduct/puredataobjectfactory.md" >}}
[Quorum]: {{< relref "/docs/apis/protocol-base/quorum.md" >}}
[SharedCell]: {{< relref "/docs/apis/cell/sharedcell.md" >}}
[SharedCounter]: {{< relref "SharedCounter" >}}
[SharedDirectory]: {{< relref "/docs/apis/map/shareddirectory.md" >}}
[SharedMap]: {{< relref "/docs/apis/map/sharedmap.md" >}}
[SharedMatrix]: {{< relref "SharedMatrix" >}}
[SharedNumberSequence]: {{< relref "SharedNumberSequence" >}}
[SharedObjectSequence]: {{< relref "/docs/apis/sequence/sharedobjectsequence.md" >}}
[SharedSequence]: {{< relref "SharedSequence" >}}
[SharedString]: {{< relref "SharedString" >}}

<!-- Sequence methods -->

[sequence.insert]: {{< relref "/docs/apis/sequence/sharedsequence.md#sequence-sharedsequence-insert-Method" >}}
[sequence.getItems]: {{< relref "/docs/apis/sequence/sharedsequence.md#sequence-sharedsequence-getitems-Method" >}}
[sequence.remove]: {{< relref "/docs/apis/sequence/sharedsequence.md#sequence-sharedsequence-getitems-Method" >}}
[sequenceDeltaEvent]: {{< relref "/docs/apis/sequence/sequencedeltaevent.md" >}}

<!-- AUTO-GENERATED-CONTENT:END -->

Commit message:

Publish initial sequence docs on website (#6265)

docs/content/docs/deep/dataobject-aqueduct.md, after:

---
title: Encapsulating data with DataObject
menuPosition: 7
aliases:
  - "/docs/concepts/dataobject-aqueduct/"
---

In the previous section we introduced distributed data structures and demonstrated how to use them. We'll now discuss
how to combine those distributed data structures with custom code (business logic) to create modular, reusable pieces.

<!-- IMPORTANT: Don't manually edit the auto-generated content below. Instead, edit the source file (look at the path
     argument) and then run "npm run build:md-markdown" from the docs folder. That will update all autogenerated
     content, so you should commit the resulting changes. -->

<!-- AUTO-GENERATED-CONTENT:START (INCLUDE:path=packages/framework/aqueduct/README.md&start=3&end=-6) -->

The Aqueduct is a library for building Fluid objects and Fluid containers within the Fluid Framework. Its goal is to
provide a thin base layer over the existing Fluid Framework interfaces that allows developers to get started quickly.

## Fluid object development

Fluid object development consists of developing the data object and the corresponding data object factory. The data
object defines the logic of your Fluid object, whereas the data object factory defines how to initialize your object.

## Data object development

`DataObject` and `PureDataObject` are the two base classes provided by the library.

### DataObject

The [DataObject][] class extends [PureDataObject](#puredataobject) and provides the following additional functionality:

- A `root` SharedDirectory that makes creating and storing distributed data structures and objects easy.
- Blob storage implementation that makes it easier to store and retrieve blobs.

**Note:** Most developers will want to use the `DataObject` as their base class to extend.

### PureDataObject

[PureDataObject][] provides the following functionality:

- Basic set of interface implementations to be loadable in a Fluid container.
- Functions for managing the Fluid object lifecycle.
  - `initializingFirstTime(props: S)` - called only the first time a Fluid object is initialized and only on the first
    client on which it loads.
  - `initializingFromExisting()` - called every time except the first time a Fluid object is initialized; that is, every
    time an instance is loaded from a previously created instance.
  - `hasInitialized()` - called every time after `initializingFirstTime` or `initializingFromExisting` executes
- Helper functions for creating and getting other data objects in the same container.

**Note:** You probably don't want to inherit from this data object directly unless you are creating another base data
object class. If you have a data object that doesn't use distributed data structures you should use Container Services
to manage your object.

### DataObject example

In the below example we have a simple data object, *Clicker*, that will render a value alongside a button the the page.
Every time the button is pressed the value will increment. Because this data object renders to the DOM it also extends
`IFluidHTMLView`.

```jsx
export class Clicker extends DataObject implements IFluidHTMLView {
    public static get Name() { return "clicker"; }

    public get IFluidHTMLView() { return this; }

    private _counter: SharedCounter | undefined;

    protected async initializingFirstTime() {
        const counter = SharedCounter.create(this.runtime);
        this.root.set("clicks", counter.handle);
    }

    protected async hasInitialized() {
        const counterHandle = this.root.get<IFluidHandle<SharedCounter>>("clicks");
        this._counter = await counterHandle.get();
    }

    public render(div: HTMLElement) {
        ReactDOM.render(
            <CounterReactView counter={this.counter} />,
            div,
        );
        return div;
    }

    private get counter() {
        if (this._counter === undefined) {
            throw new Error("SharedCounter not initialized");
        }
        return this._counter;
    }
}
```

## DataObjectFactory development

The `DataObjectFactory` is used to create a Fluid object and to initialize a data object within the context of a
Container. The factory can live alongside a data object or within a different package. The `DataObjectFactory` defines
the distributed data structures used within the data object as well as any Fluid objects it depends on.

The Aqueduct offers a factory for each of the data objects provided.

### More details

- [DataObjectFactory][]
- [PureDataObjectFactory][]

### DataObjectFactory example

In the below example we build a `DataObjectFactory` for the [Clicker](#dataobject-example) example above. To build a
`DataObjectFactory`, we need to provide factories for the distributed data structures we are using inside of our
`DataObject`. In the above example we store a handle to a `SharedCounter` in `this.root` to track our `"clicks"`. The
`DataObject` comes with the `SharedDirectory` (`this.root`) already initialized, so we just need to add the factory for
`SharedCounter`.

```typescript
export const ClickerInstantiationFactory = new DataObjectFactory(
    Clicker.Name,
    Clicker,
    [SharedCounter.getFactory()], // distributed data structures
    {}, // Provider Symbols see below
);
```

This factory can then create Clickers when provided a creating instance context.

```typescript
const myClicker = ClickerInstantiationFactory.createInstance(this.context) as Clicker;
```

### Providers in data objects

The `this.providers` object on `PureDataObject` is initialized in the constructor and is generated based on Providers
provided by the Container. To access a specific provider you need to:

1. Define the type in the generic on `PureDataObject`/`DataObject`
2. Add the symbol to your factory (see [DataObjectFactory Example](#dataobjectfactory-example) below)

In the below example we have an `IFluidUserInfo` interface that looks like this:

```typescript
interface IFluidUserInfo {
    readonly userCount: number;
}
```

On our example we want to declare that we want the `IFluidUserInfo` Provider and get the `userCount` if the Container
provides the `IFluidUserInfo` provider.

```typescript
export class MyExample extends DataObject<IFluidUserInfo> {
    protected async initializingFirstTime() {
        const userInfo = await this.providers.IFluidUserInfo;
        if(userInfo) {
            console.log(userInfo.userCount);
        }
    }
}

// Note: we have to define the symbol to the IFluidUserInfo that we declared above. This is compile time checked.
export const ClickerInstantiationFactory = new DataObjectFactory(
    Clicker.Name
    Clicker,
    [], // distributed data structures
    {IFluidUserInfo}, // Provider Symbols see below
);
```

## Container development

A Container is a collection of data objects and functionality that produce an experience. Containers hold the instances
of data objects as well as defining the data objects that can be created within the Container. Because of this data
objects cannot be consumed except for when they are within a Container.

The Aqueduct library provides the
[ContainerRuntimeFactoryWithDefaultDataStore](./src/containerRuntimeFactories/containerRuntimeFactoryWithDefaultDataStore.ts)
that enables you as a container developer to:

- Define the registry of data objects that can be created
- Declare the default data object
- Use [provider entries](#provider-entries-development)
- Declare Container level [Request Handlers](#container-level-request-handlers)

## Container object example

In the below example we will write a Container that exposes the above [Clicker](#dataobject-example) using the
[Clicker Factory](#dataobjectfactory-example). You will notice below that the Container developer defines the
registry name (data object type) of the Fluid object. We also pass in the type of data object we want to be the default.
The default data object is created the first time the Container is created.

```typescript
export fluidExport = new ContainerRuntimeFactoryWithDefaultDataStore(
  ClickerInstantiationFactory.type, // Default data object type
  ClickerInstantiationFactory.registryEntry, // Fluid object registry
  [], // Provider Entries
  [], // Request Handler Routes
);
```

## Provider entries development

The container developer can optionally provide a registry of `ProviderEntry` objects into the container. A ProviderEntry
is defined as follows:

```typescript
interface ProviderEntry<T extends keyof IFluidObject> {
    type: T;
    provider: FluidProvider<T>
}
```

The `type` must be a keyof `IFluidObject`. This basically means that it needs to be the name of an interfaces that
extends off of `IFluidObject`. The `provider` must be something that provides the interface defined in `type`. The
`DependencyContainer` we use in the `@fluidframework/synthesize` package defines the following `FluidObjectProvider`
types:

```typescript
type FluidObjectProvider<T extends keyof IFluidObject> =
    IFluidObject[T]
    | Promise<IFluidObject[T]>
    | ((dependencyContainer: DependencyContainer) => IFluidObject[T])
    | ((dependencyContainer: DependencyContainer) => Promise<IFluidObject[T]>);
```

```typescript
IFluidObject[T]
```

An object that implements the interface.

```typescript
Promise<IFluidObject[T]>
```

A Promise to an object that implements the interface

```typescript
(dependencyContainer: DependencyContainer) => IFluidObject[T]
```

A factory that will return the object.

```typescript
(dependencyContainer: DependencyContainer) => Promise<IFluidObject[T]>
```

A factory that will return a Promise to the object.

## Container-level request handlers

You can provide custom request handlers to the container. These request handlers are injected after system handlers but
before the `DataObject` get function. Request handlers allow you to intercept requests made to the container and return
custom responses.

Consider a scenario where you want to create a random color generator. I could create a RequestHandler that when someone
makes a request to the Container for `{url:"color"}` will intercept and return a custom `IResponse` of `{ status:200,
type:"text/plain", value:"blue"}`.

We use custom handlers to build the Container Services pattern.

<!-- AUTO-GENERATED-CONTENT:END -->

<!-- AUTO-GENERATED-CONTENT:START (INCLUDE:path=docs/_includes/links.md) -->
<!-- Links -->

<!-- Concepts -->

[Fluid container]: {{< relref "containers-runtime.md" >}}

<!-- Packages -->

[Aqueduct]: {{< relref "/docs/apis/aqueduct.md" >}}
[fluid-framework]: {{< relref "/docs/apis/fluid-framework.md" >}}

<!-- Classes and interfaces -->

[ContainerRuntimeFactoryWithDefaultDataStore]: {{< relref "/docs/apis/aqueduct/containerruntimefactorywithdefaultdatastore.md" >}}
[DataObject]: {{< relref "/docs/apis/aqueduct/dataobject.md" >}}
[DataObjectFactory]: {{< relref "/docs/apis/aqueduct/dataobjectfactory.md" >}}
[Ink]: {{< relref "/docs/apis/ink/ink.md" >}}
[PureDataObject]: {{< relref "/docs/apis/aqueduct/puredataobject.md" >}}
[PureDataObjectFactory]: {{< relref "/docs/apis/aqueduct/puredataobjectfactory.md" >}}
[Quorum]: {{< relref "/docs/apis/protocol-base/quorum.md" >}}
[SharedCell]: {{< relref "/docs/apis/cell/sharedcell.md" >}}
[SharedCounter]: {{< relref "SharedCounter" >}}
[SharedDirectory]: {{< relref "/docs/apis/map/shareddirectory.md" >}}
[SharedMap]: {{< relref "/docs/apis/map/sharedmap.md" >}}
[SharedMatrix]: {{< relref "SharedMatrix" >}}
[SharedNumberSequence]: {{< relref "SharedNumberSequence" >}}
[SharedObjectSequence]: {{< relref "/docs/apis/sequence/sharedobjectsequence.md" >}}
[SharedSequence]: {{< relref "SharedSequence" >}}
[SharedString]: {{< relref "SharedString" >}}

<!-- Sequence methods -->

[sequence.insert]: {{< relref "/docs/apis/sequence/sharedsequence.md#sequence-sharedsequence-insert-Method" >}}
[sequence.getItems]: {{< relref "/docs/apis/sequence/sharedsequence.md#sequence-sharedsequence-getitems-Method" >}}
[sequence.remove]: {{< relref "/docs/apis/sequence/sharedsequence.md#sequence-sharedsequence-getitems-Method" >}}
[sequenceDeltaEvent]: {{< relref "/docs/apis/sequence/sequencedeltaevent.md" >}}

<!-- AUTO-GENERATED-CONTENT:END -->
