{
  "title": "HasPlaceFields Interface",
  "kind": "Interface",
  "members": {
    "PropertySignature": {
      "heed": "/docs/apis/tree/sequencefield/hasplacefields-interface#heed-propertysignature",
      "lineage": "/docs/apis/tree/sequencefield/hasplacefields-interface#lineage-propertysignature"
    }
  },
  "package": "@fluid-internal/tree",
  "unscopedPackageName": "tree"
}

[//]: # (Do not edit this file. It is automatically generated by @fluidtools/api-markdown-documenter.)

[Packages](/docs/apis/) &gt; [@fluid-internal/tree](/docs/apis/tree) &gt; [SequenceField](/docs/apis/tree/sequencefield-namespace) &gt; [HasPlaceFields](/docs/apis/tree/sequencefield/hasplacefields-interface)

## Signature {#hasplacefields-signature}

```typescript
export interface HasPlaceFields 
```

## Properties

<table class="table table-striped table-hover">
  <thead>
    <tr>
      <th scope="col">
        Property
      </th>
      <th scope="col">
        Modifiers
      </th>
      <th scope="col">
        Type
      </th>
      <th scope="col">
        Description
      </th>
    </tr>
  </thead>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td>
        <a href='/docs/apis/tree/sequencefield/hasplacefields-interface#heed-propertysignature'>heed</a>
      </td>
      <td>
        <code>optional</code>
      </td>
      <td>
        Effects | [Effects, Effects]
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>Describes which kinds of concurrent slice operations should affect the target place.</p><p>The tuple allows this choice to be different for concurrent slices that are sequenced either before (<code>heed[0]</code>) or after (<code>heed[1]</code>). For example, multiple concurrent updates of a sequence with last-write-wins semantics would use a slice-delete over the whole sequence, and an insert with the <code>heed</code> value <code>[Effects.None, Effects.All]</code>.</p><p>When the value for prior and ulterior concurrent slices is the same, that value can be used directly instead of the corresponding tuple.</p><p>Omit if <code>Effects.All</code> for terseness.</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>
        <a href='/docs/apis/tree/sequencefield/hasplacefields-interface#lineage-propertysignature'>lineage</a>
      </td>
      <td>
        <code>optional</code>
      </td>
      <td>
        LineageEvent[]
      </td>
      <td>
        Record of relevant information about changes this mark has been rebased over. Events are stored in the order in which they were rebased over.
      </td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

## Property Details

### heed {#heed-propertysignature}

Describes which kinds of concurrent slice operations should affect the target place.

The tuple allows this choice to be different for concurrent slices that are sequenced either before (`heed[0]`<!-- -->) or after (`heed[1]`<!-- -->). For example, multiple concurrent updates of a sequence with last-write-wins semantics would use a slice-delete over the whole sequence, and an insert with the `heed` value `[Effects.None, Effects.All]`<!-- -->.

When the value for prior and ulterior concurrent slices is the same, that value can be used directly instead of the corresponding tuple.

Omit if `Effects.All` for terseness.

#### Signature {#heed-signature}

```typescript
heed?: Effects | [Effects, Effects];
```

### lineage {#lineage-propertysignature}

Record of relevant information about changes this mark has been rebased over. Events are stored in the order in which they were rebased over.

#### Signature {#lineage-signature}

```typescript
lineage?: LineageEvent[];
```