{
  "title": "IAnyDriverError Interface",
  "summary": "Interface describing errors and warnings raised by any driver code. Not expected to be implemented by a class or an object literal, but rather used in place of any or unknown in various function signatures that pass errors around.\n\n'Any' in the interface name is a nod to the fact that errorType has lost its type constraint. It will be either DriverErrorType or the specific driver's specialized error type enum, but we can't reference a specific driver's error type enum in this code.",
  "kind": "Interface",
  "members": {
    "PropertySignature": {
      "errorType": "/docs/apis/driver-utils\\ianydrivererror-interface#errortype-propertysignature"
    }
  },
  "package": "@fluidframework/driver-utils",
  "unscopedPackageName": "driver-utils"
}

[//]: # (Do not edit this file. It is automatically generated by @fluidtools/api-markdown-documenter.)

[Packages](/docs/apis/) &gt; [@fluidframework/driver-utils](/docs/apis/driver-utils) &gt; [IAnyDriverError](/docs/apis/driver-utils\ianydrivererror-interface)

{{% callout Warning Deprecated %}}
- In favour of <i>@fluidframework/driver-definitions\#IAnyDriverError</i> so that it can used from the base to upper layers.


{{% /callout %}}

Interface describing errors and warnings raised by any driver code. Not expected to be implemented by a class or an object literal, but rather used in place of any or unknown in various function signatures that pass errors around.

"Any" in the interface name is a nod to the fact that errorType has lost its type constraint. It will be either DriverErrorType or the specific driver's specialized error type enum, but we can't reference a specific driver's error type enum in this code.

## Signature {#ianydrivererror-signature}

```typescript
export interface IAnyDriverError extends Omit<IDriverErrorBase, "errorType"> 
```
<b>Extends:</b> Omit&lt;[IDriverErrorBase](/docs/apis/driver-definitions\idrivererrorbase-interface)

## Properties

<table class="table table-striped table-hover">
  <thead>
    <tr>
      <th scope="col">
        Property
      </th>
      <th scope="col">
        Type
      </th>
      <th scope="col">
        Description
      </th>
    </tr>
  </thead>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td>
        <a href='/docs/apis/driver-utils\ianydrivererror-interface#errortype-propertysignature'>errorType</a>
      </td>
      <td>
        string
      </td>
      <td>
      </td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

## Property Details

### errorType {#errortype-propertysignature}

#### Signature {#errortype-signature}

```typescript
readonly errorType: string;
```