{"kind":"Interface","title":"HostStoragePolicy Interface","members":{"PropertySignature":{"cacheCreateNewSummary":"/docs/apis/odsp-driver-definitions/hoststoragepolicy#cachecreatenewsummary-PropertySignature","concurrentOpsBatches":"/docs/apis/odsp-driver-definitions/hoststoragepolicy#concurrentopsbatches-PropertySignature","concurrentSnapshotFetch":"/docs/apis/odsp-driver-definitions/hoststoragepolicy#concurrentsnapshotfetch-PropertySignature","enableRedeemFallback":"/docs/apis/odsp-driver-definitions/hoststoragepolicy#enableredeemfallback-PropertySignature","enableShareLinkWithCreate":"/docs/apis/odsp-driver-definitions/hoststoragepolicy#enablesharelinkwithcreate-PropertySignature","fetchBinarySnapshotFormat":"/docs/apis/odsp-driver-definitions/hoststoragepolicy#fetchbinarysnapshotformat-PropertySignature","isolateSocketCache":"/docs/apis/odsp-driver-definitions/hoststoragepolicy#isolatesocketcache-PropertySignature","opsBatchSize":"/docs/apis/odsp-driver-definitions/hoststoragepolicy#opsbatchsize-PropertySignature","opsCaching":"/docs/apis/odsp-driver-definitions/hoststoragepolicy#opscaching-PropertySignature","sessionOptions":"/docs/apis/odsp-driver-definitions/hoststoragepolicy#sessionoptions-PropertySignature","snapshotOptions":"/docs/apis/odsp-driver-definitions/hoststoragepolicy#snapshotoptions-PropertySignature"}},"package":"@fluidframework/odsp-driver-definitions","unscopedPackageName":"odsp-driver-definitions"}

[//]: # (Do not edit this file. It is automatically generated by API Documenter.)

[Packages](/docs/apis/) &gt; [@fluidframework/odsp-driver-definitions](/docs/apis/odsp-driver-definitions) &gt; [HostStoragePolicy](/docs/apis/odsp-driver-definitions/hoststoragepolicy)

<b>Signature:</b>

```typescript
export interface HostStoragePolicy 
```

## Properties

<table class="table table-striped table-hover property-list">
<caption>List of properties on this interface</caption>
  <thead>
    <tr>
     <th scope="col">Property</th>
 <th scope="col">Type</th>
 <th scope="col">Description</th>
    </tr>
  </thead>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td><a href='/docs/apis/odsp-driver-definitions/hoststoragepolicy#cachecreatenewsummary-PropertySignature'>cacheCreateNewSummary</a></td>
      <td>boolean</td>
      <td>Policy controlling if we will cache initial summary when we create a document</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td><a href='/docs/apis/odsp-driver-definitions/hoststoragepolicy#concurrentopsbatches-PropertySignature'>concurrentOpsBatches</a></td>
      <td>number</td>
      <td></td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td><a href='/docs/apis/odsp-driver-definitions/hoststoragepolicy#concurrentsnapshotfetch-PropertySignature'>concurrentSnapshotFetch</a></td>
      <td>boolean</td>
      <td>If set to true, tells driver to concurrently fetch snapshot from storage (SPO) and cache Container loads from whatever comes first in such case. Snapshot fetched from storage is pushed to cache in either case. If set to false, driver will first consult with cache. Only on cache miss (cache does not return snapshot), driver will fetch snapshot from storage (and push it to cache), otherwise it will load from cache and not reach out to storage. Passing true results in faster loads and keeping cache more current, but it increases bandwidth consumption.</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td><a href='/docs/apis/odsp-driver-definitions/hoststoragepolicy#enableredeemfallback-PropertySignature'>enableRedeemFallback</a></td>
      <td>boolean</td>
      <td></td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td><a href='/docs/apis/odsp-driver-definitions/hoststoragepolicy#enablesharelinkwithcreate-PropertySignature'>enableShareLinkWithCreate</a></td>
      <td>boolean</td>
      <td>Enable creation of sharing link along with the creation of file by setting this value to true. If the host provides a 'createLinkType' parameter in the request URL to the container.attach() method, we will request for send the request to ODSP with the same (if the flag is enabled) so that a sharing can be created with the creation of file to save number for round trips made to ODSP.</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td><a href='/docs/apis/odsp-driver-definitions/hoststoragepolicy#fetchbinarysnapshotformat-PropertySignature'>fetchBinarySnapshotFormat</a></td>
      <td>boolean</td>
      <td></td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td><a href='/docs/apis/odsp-driver-definitions/hoststoragepolicy#isolatesocketcache-PropertySignature'>isolateSocketCache</a></td>
      <td>boolean</td>
      <td>If set to true, socket cache are per OdspDocumentService instead of shared across all instances</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td><a href='/docs/apis/odsp-driver-definitions/hoststoragepolicy#opsbatchsize-PropertySignature'>opsBatchSize</a></td>
      <td>number</td>
      <td></td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td><a href='/docs/apis/odsp-driver-definitions/hoststoragepolicy#opscaching-PropertySignature'>opsCaching</a></td>
      <td><a href='/docs/apis/odsp-driver-definitions/iopscachingpolicy'>IOpsCachingPolicy</a></td>
      <td>Policy controlling ops caching (leveraging IPersistedCache passed to driver factory)</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td><a href='/docs/apis/odsp-driver-definitions/hoststoragepolicy#sessionoptions-PropertySignature'>sessionOptions</a></td>
      <td><a href='/docs/apis/odsp-driver-definitions/icollabsessionoptions'>ICollabSessionOptions</a></td>
      <td>Policy controlling how collaboration session is established</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td><a href='/docs/apis/odsp-driver-definitions/hoststoragepolicy#snapshotoptions-PropertySignature'>snapshotOptions</a></td>
      <td><a href='/docs/apis/odsp-driver-definitions/isnapshotoptions'>ISnapshotOptions</a></td>
      <td></td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

<hr><div id=interface-details>

## Property Details {#properties-details}

### cacheCreateNewSummary {#cachecreatenewsummary-PropertySignature}

Policy controlling if we will cache initial summary when we create a document

<b>Signature:</b>

```typescript
cacheCreateNewSummary?: boolean;
```

### concurrentOpsBatches {#concurrentopsbatches-PropertySignature}

<b>Signature:</b>

```typescript
concurrentOpsBatches?: number;
```

### concurrentSnapshotFetch {#concurrentsnapshotfetch-PropertySignature}

If set to true, tells driver to concurrently fetch snapshot from storage (SPO) and cache Container loads from whatever comes first in such case. Snapshot fetched from storage is pushed to cache in either case. If set to false, driver will first consult with cache. Only on cache miss (cache does not return snapshot), driver will fetch snapshot from storage (and push it to cache), otherwise it will load from cache and not reach out to storage. Passing true results in faster loads and keeping cache more current, but it increases bandwidth consumption.

<b>Signature:</b>

```typescript
concurrentSnapshotFetch?: boolean;
```

### enableRedeemFallback {#enableredeemfallback-PropertySignature}

{{% callout warning Deprecated %}}
- This field will be always set to true after removal. True to have the sharing link redeem fallback in case the Trees Latest/Redeem 1RT call fails with redeem error. During fallback it will first redeem the sharing link and then make the Trees latest call.

{{% /callout %}}

<b>Signature:</b>

```typescript
enableRedeemFallback?: boolean;
```

### enableShareLinkWithCreate {#enablesharelinkwithcreate-PropertySignature}

Enable creation of sharing link along with the creation of file by setting this value to true. If the host provides a 'createLinkType' parameter in the request URL to the container.attach() method, we will request for send the request to ODSP with the same (if the flag is enabled) so that a sharing can be created with the creation of file to save number for round trips made to ODSP.

<b>Signature:</b>

```typescript
enableShareLinkWithCreate?: boolean;
```

### fetchBinarySnapshotFormat {#fetchbinarysnapshotformat-PropertySignature}

{{% callout warning Deprecated %}}
- This will be replaced with feature gate snapshotFormatFetchType. Policy controlling if we want to fetch binary format snapshot.

{{% /callout %}}

<b>Signature:</b>

```typescript
fetchBinarySnapshotFormat?: boolean;
```

### isolateSocketCache {#isolatesocketcache-PropertySignature}

If set to true, socket cache are per OdspDocumentService instead of shared across all instances

<b>Signature:</b>

```typescript
isolateSocketCache?: boolean;
```

### opsBatchSize {#opsbatchsize-PropertySignature}

<b>Signature:</b>

```typescript
opsBatchSize?: number;
```

### opsCaching {#opscaching-PropertySignature}

Policy controlling ops caching (leveraging IPersistedCache passed to driver factory)

<b>Signature:</b>

```typescript
opsCaching?: IOpsCachingPolicy;
```

### sessionOptions {#sessionoptions-PropertySignature}

Policy controlling how collaboration session is established

<b>Signature:</b>

```typescript
sessionOptions?: ICollabSessionOptions;
```

### snapshotOptions {#snapshotoptions-PropertySignature}

<b>Signature:</b>

```typescript
snapshotOptions?: ISnapshotOptions;
```

</div>
