{"kind":"Interface","title":"IEntry Interface","summary":"Cache entry. Identifies file that this entry belongs to, and type of content stored in it.","members":{"PropertySignature":{"key":"/docs/apis/odsp-driver-definitions/ientry#key-PropertySignature","type":"/docs/apis/odsp-driver-definitions/ientry#type-PropertySignature"}},"package":"@fluidframework/odsp-driver-definitions","unscopedPackageName":"odsp-driver-definitions"}

[//]: # (Do not edit this file. It is automatically generated by API Documenter.)

[Packages](/docs/apis/) &gt; [@fluidframework/odsp-driver-definitions](/docs/apis/odsp-driver-definitions) &gt; [IEntry](/docs/apis/odsp-driver-definitions/ientry)

Cache entry. Identifies file that this entry belongs to, and type of content stored in it.

<b>Signature:</b>

```typescript
export interface IEntry 
```

## Properties

<table class="table table-striped table-hover property-list">
<caption>List of properties on this interface</caption>
  <thead>
    <tr>
     <th scope="col">Property</th>
 <th scope="col">Type</th>
 <th scope="col">Description</th>
    </tr>
  </thead>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td><a href='/docs/apis/odsp-driver-definitions/ientry#key-PropertySignature'>key</a></td>
      <td>string</td>
      <td>Identifies individual entry for a given file and type. Each file can have multiple cache entries associated with it. This property identifies a particular instance of entry. For example, for blobs it will be unique ID of the blob in a file. For batch of ops, it can be starting op sequence number. For types that have only one entry (like snapshots), it will be empty string.</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td><a href='/docs/apis/odsp-driver-definitions/ientry#type-PropertySignature'>type</a></td>
      <td><a href='/docs/apis/odsp-driver-definitions#cachecontenttype-TypeAlias'>CacheContentType</a></td>
      <td>Identifies type of entry for a given file. Each file can have multiple types of entries associated with it. For example, it can be snapshot, blob, ops, etc.</td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

<hr><div id=interface-details>

## Property Details {#properties-details}

### key {#key-PropertySignature}

Identifies individual entry for a given file and type. Each file can have multiple cache entries associated with it. This property identifies a particular instance of entry. For example, for blobs it will be unique ID of the blob in a file. For batch of ops, it can be starting op sequence number. For types that have only one entry (like snapshots), it will be empty string.

<b>Signature:</b>

```typescript
key: string;
```

### type {#type-PropertySignature}

Identifies type of entry for a given file. Each file can have multiple types of entries associated with it. For example, it can be snapshot, blob, ops, etc.

<b>Signature:</b>

```typescript
type: CacheContentType;
```

</div>
