{"kind":"Interface","title":"IFileEntry Interface","members":{"PropertySignature":{"docId":"/docs/apis/odsp-driver-definitions/ifileentry#docid-PropertySignature","resolvedUrl":"/docs/apis/odsp-driver-definitions/ifileentry#resolvedurl-PropertySignature"}},"package":"@fluidframework/odsp-driver-definitions","unscopedPackageName":"odsp-driver-definitions"}

[//]: # (Do not edit this file. It is automatically generated by API Documenter.)

[Packages](/docs/apis/) &gt; [@fluidframework/odsp-driver-definitions](/docs/apis/odsp-driver-definitions) &gt; [IFileEntry](/docs/apis/odsp-driver-definitions/ifileentry)

<b>Signature:</b>

```typescript
export interface IFileEntry 
```

## Properties

<table class="table table-striped table-hover property-list">
<caption>List of properties on this interface</caption>
  <thead>
    <tr>
     <th scope="col">Property</th>
 <th scope="col">Type</th>
 <th scope="col">Description</th>
    </tr>
  </thead>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td><a href='/docs/apis/odsp-driver-definitions/ifileentry#docid-PropertySignature'>docId</a></td>
      <td>string</td>
      <td>Unique and stable ID of the document. Driver guarantees that docId is stable ID uniquely identifying document.</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td><a href='/docs/apis/odsp-driver-definitions/ifileentry#resolvedurl-PropertySignature'>resolvedUrl</a></td>
      <td><a href='/docs/apis/driver-definitions/ifluidresolvedurl'>IFluidResolvedUrl</a></td>
      <td>Resolved URI is provided for additional versatility - host can use it to identify file in storage, and (as example) delete all cached entries for a file if user requests so. This is IOdspResolvedUrl in case of ODSP driver.</td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

<hr><div id=interface-details>

## Property Details {#properties-details}

### docId {#docid-PropertySignature}

Unique and stable ID of the document. Driver guarantees that docId is stable ID uniquely identifying document.

<b>Signature:</b>

```typescript
docId: string;
```

### resolvedUrl {#resolvedurl-PropertySignature}

Resolved URI is provided for additional versatility - host can use it to identify file in storage, and (as example) delete all cached entries for a file if user requests so. This is IOdspResolvedUrl in case of ODSP driver.

<b>Signature:</b>

```typescript
resolvedUrl: IFluidResolvedUrl;
```

</div>
