{"kind":"Interface","title":"IOdspErrorAugmentations Interface","members":{"PropertySignature":{"facetCodes":"/docs/apis/odsp-driver-definitions/iodsperroraugmentations#facetcodes-PropertySignature","redirectLocation":"/docs/apis/odsp-driver-definitions/iodsperroraugmentations#redirectlocation-PropertySignature","serverEpoch":"/docs/apis/odsp-driver-definitions/iodsperroraugmentations#serverepoch-PropertySignature"}},"package":"@fluidframework/odsp-driver-definitions","unscopedPackageName":"odsp-driver-definitions"}

[//]: # (Do not edit this file. It is automatically generated by API Documenter.)

[Packages](/docs/apis/) &gt; [@fluidframework/odsp-driver-definitions](/docs/apis/odsp-driver-definitions) &gt; [IOdspErrorAugmentations](/docs/apis/odsp-driver-definitions/iodsperroraugmentations)

<b>Signature:</b>

```typescript
export interface IOdspErrorAugmentations 
```

## Properties

<table class="table table-striped table-hover property-list">
<caption>List of properties on this interface</caption>
  <thead>
    <tr>
     <th scope="col">Property</th>
 <th scope="col">Type</th>
 <th scope="col">Description</th>
    </tr>
  </thead>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td><a href='/docs/apis/odsp-driver-definitions/iodsperroraugmentations#facetcodes-PropertySignature'>facetCodes</a></td>
      <td>string[]</td>
      <td>It is array of error codes included in error response from server.</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td><a href='/docs/apis/odsp-driver-definitions/iodsperroraugmentations#redirectlocation-PropertySignature'>redirectLocation</a></td>
      <td>string</td>
      <td>It is the redirection url at which the network call should have been made. It is due to change in site domain of the file on server.</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td><a href='/docs/apis/odsp-driver-definitions/iodsperroraugmentations#serverepoch-PropertySignature'>serverEpoch</a></td>
      <td>string</td>
      <td>Server epoch indicates when the file was last modified. Used to detect modifications outside Fluid's services</td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

<hr><div id=interface-details>

## Property Details {#properties-details}

### facetCodes {#facetcodes-PropertySignature}

It is array of error codes included in error response from server.

<b>Signature:</b>

```typescript
facetCodes?: string[];
```

### redirectLocation {#redirectlocation-PropertySignature}

It is the redirection url at which the network call should have been made. It is due to change in site domain of the file on server.

<b>Signature:</b>

```typescript
redirectLocation?: string;
```

### serverEpoch {#serverepoch-PropertySignature}

Server epoch indicates when the file was last modified. Used to detect modifications outside Fluid's services

<b>Signature:</b>

```typescript
serverEpoch?: string;
```

</div>
