{"kind":"Interface","title":"ShareLinkInfoType Interface","summary":"Sharing link data created for the ODSP item. Contains information about either sharing link created while creating a new file or a redeemable share link created when loading an existing file","members":{"PropertySignature":{"createLink":"/docs/apis/odsp-driver-definitions/sharelinkinfotype#createlink-PropertySignature","sharingLinkToRedeem":"/docs/apis/odsp-driver-definitions/sharelinkinfotype#sharinglinktoredeem-PropertySignature"}},"package":"@fluidframework/odsp-driver-definitions","unscopedPackageName":"odsp-driver-definitions"}

[//]: # (Do not edit this file. It is automatically generated by API Documenter.)

[Packages](/docs/apis/) &gt; [@fluidframework/odsp-driver-definitions](/docs/apis/odsp-driver-definitions) &gt; [ShareLinkInfoType](/docs/apis/odsp-driver-definitions/sharelinkinfotype)

Sharing link data created for the ODSP item. Contains information about either sharing link created while creating a new file or a redeemable share link created when loading an existing file

<b>Signature:</b>

```typescript
export interface ShareLinkInfoType 
```

## Properties

<table class="table table-striped table-hover property-list">
<caption>List of properties on this interface</caption>
  <thead>
    <tr>
     <th scope="col">Property</th>
 <th scope="col">Type</th>
 <th scope="col">Description</th>
    </tr>
  </thead>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td><a href='/docs/apis/odsp-driver-definitions/sharelinkinfotype#createlink-PropertySignature'>createLink</a></td>
      <td>{ type?: <a href='/docs/apis/odsp-driver-definitions#sharelinktypes-Enum'>ShareLinkTypes</a>; link?: string; error?: any; }</td>
      <td>We create a new file in ODSP with the /snapshot api call. Applications then call separate apis to create a sharing link for that file. To reduce the number of api calls, ODSP now provides a feature where we can create a share link along with creating a file by passing a query parameter called createShareLink. createLink object below saves the data corresponding to this feature.</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td><a href='/docs/apis/odsp-driver-definitions/sharelinkinfotype#sharinglinktoredeem-PropertySignature'>sharingLinkToRedeem</a></td>
      <td>string</td>
      <td>This is used to save the network calls while doing trees/latest call as if the client does not have permission then this link can be redeemed for the permissions in the same network call.</td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

<hr><div id=interface-details>

## Property Details {#properties-details}

### createLink {#createlink-PropertySignature}

We create a new file in ODSP with the /snapshot api call. Applications then call separate apis to create a sharing link for that file. To reduce the number of api calls, ODSP now provides a feature where we can create a share link along with creating a file by passing a query parameter called createShareLink. createLink object below saves the data corresponding to this feature.

<b>Signature:</b>

```typescript
createLink?: {
        type?: ShareLinkTypes;
        link?: string;
        error?: any;
    };
```

### sharingLinkToRedeem {#sharinglinktoredeem-PropertySignature}

This is used to save the network calls while doing trees/latest call as if the client does not have permission then this link can be redeemed for the permissions in the same network call.

<b>Signature:</b>

```typescript
sharingLinkToRedeem?: string;
```

</div>
