{"kind":"Interface","title":"TokenFetchOptions Interface","summary":"Represents access token fetch options","members":{"PropertySignature":{"claims":"/docs/apis/odsp-driver-definitions/tokenfetchoptions#claims-PropertySignature","refresh":"/docs/apis/odsp-driver-definitions/tokenfetchoptions#refresh-PropertySignature","tenantId":"/docs/apis/odsp-driver-definitions/tokenfetchoptions#tenantid-PropertySignature"}},"package":"@fluidframework/odsp-driver-definitions","unscopedPackageName":"odsp-driver-definitions"}

[//]: # (Do not edit this file. It is automatically generated by API Documenter.)

[Packages](/docs/apis/) &gt; [@fluidframework/odsp-driver-definitions](/docs/apis/odsp-driver-definitions) &gt; [TokenFetchOptions](/docs/apis/odsp-driver-definitions/tokenfetchoptions)

Represents access token fetch options

<b>Signature:</b>

```typescript
export interface TokenFetchOptions 
```

## Properties

<table class="table table-striped table-hover property-list">
<caption>List of properties on this interface</caption>
  <thead>
    <tr>
     <th scope="col">Property</th>
 <th scope="col">Type</th>
 <th scope="col">Description</th>
    </tr>
  </thead>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td><a href='/docs/apis/odsp-driver-definitions/tokenfetchoptions#claims-PropertySignature'>claims</a></td>
      <td>string</td>
      <td>Claims that have to be passed with token fetch request. These can be used to specify additional information that must be passed to token authority.</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td><a href='/docs/apis/odsp-driver-definitions/tokenfetchoptions#refresh-PropertySignature'>refresh</a></td>
      <td>boolean</td>
      <td>Value indicating whether fresh token has to be returned. If false then it is okay to return cached unexpired token if available.</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td><a href='/docs/apis/odsp-driver-definitions/tokenfetchoptions#tenantid-PropertySignature'>tenantId</a></td>
      <td>string</td>
      <td>Tenant id of authority that must be handling token fetch. If it is not specified then it is up to token fetching logic to determine which tenant authority to use to issue access token.</td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

<hr><div id=interface-details>

## Property Details {#properties-details}

### claims {#claims-PropertySignature}

Claims that have to be passed with token fetch request. These can be used to specify additional information that must be passed to token authority.

<b>Signature:</b>

```typescript
claims?: string;
```

### refresh {#refresh-PropertySignature}

Value indicating whether fresh token has to be returned. If false then it is okay to return cached unexpired token if available.

<b>Signature:</b>

```typescript
refresh: boolean;
```

### tenantId {#tenantid-PropertySignature}

Tenant id of authority that must be handling token fetch. If it is not specified then it is up to token fetching logic to determine which tenant authority to use to issue access token.

<b>Signature:</b>

```typescript
tenantId?: string;
```

</div>
