{
  "title": "FluidCacheConfig Interface",
  "kind": "Interface",
  "members": {
    "PropertySignature": {
      "logger": "/docs/apis/driver-web-cache\\fluidcacheconfig-interface#logger-propertysignature",
      "maxCacheItemAge": "/docs/apis/driver-web-cache\\fluidcacheconfig-interface#maxcacheitemage-propertysignature",
      "partitionKey": "/docs/apis/driver-web-cache\\fluidcacheconfig-interface#partitionkey-propertysignature"
    }
  },
  "package": "@fluidframework/driver-web-cache",
  "unscopedPackageName": "driver-web-cache"
}

[//]: # (Do not edit this file. It is automatically generated by @fluidtools/api-markdown-documenter.)

[Packages](/docs/apis/) &gt; [@fluidframework/driver-web-cache](/docs/apis/driver-web-cache) &gt; [FluidCacheConfig](/docs/apis/driver-web-cache\fluidcacheconfig-interface)

## Signature {#fluidcacheconfig-signature}

```typescript
export interface FluidCacheConfig 
```

## Properties

<table class="table table-striped table-hover">
  <thead>
    <tr>
      <th scope="col">
        Property
      </th>
      <th scope="col">
        Modifiers
      </th>
      <th scope="col">
        Type
      </th>
      <th scope="col">
        Description
      </th>
    </tr>
  </thead>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td>
        <a href='/docs/apis/driver-web-cache\fluidcacheconfig-interface#logger-propertysignature'>logger</a>
      </td>
      <td>
        <code>optional</code>
      </td>
      <td>
        <a href='/docs/apis/common-definitions\itelemetrybaselogger-interface'>ITelemetryBaseLogger</a>
      </td>
      <td>
        A logger that can be used to get insight into cache performance and errors
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>
        <a href='/docs/apis/driver-web-cache\fluidcacheconfig-interface#maxcacheitemage-propertysignature'>maxCacheItemAge</a>
      </td>
      <td>
      </td>
      <td>
        number
      </td>
      <td>
        A value in milliseconds that determines the maximum age of a cache entry to return. If an entry exists in the cache, but is older than this value, the cached value will not be returned.
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>
        <a href='/docs/apis/driver-web-cache\fluidcacheconfig-interface#partitionkey-propertysignature'>partitionKey</a>
      </td>
      <td>
      </td>
      <td>
        string | null
      </td>
      <td>
        A string to specify what partition of the cache you wish to use (e.g. a user id). Null can be used to explicity indicate no partitioning, and has been chosen vs undefined so that it is clear this is an intentional choice by the caller. A null value should only be used when the host can ensure that the cache is not able to be shared with multiple users.
      </td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

## Property Details

### logger {#logger-propertysignature}

A logger that can be used to get insight into cache performance and errors

#### Signature {#logger-signature}

```typescript
logger?: ITelemetryBaseLogger;
```

### maxCacheItemAge {#maxcacheitemage-propertysignature}

A value in milliseconds that determines the maximum age of a cache entry to return. If an entry exists in the cache, but is older than this value, the cached value will not be returned.

#### Signature {#maxcacheitemage-signature}

```typescript
maxCacheItemAge: number;
```

### partitionKey {#partitionkey-propertysignature}

A string to specify what partition of the cache you wish to use (e.g. a user id). Null can be used to explicity indicate no partitioning, and has been chosen vs undefined so that it is clear this is an intentional choice by the caller. A null value should only be used when the host can ensure that the cache is not able to be shared with multiple users.

#### Signature {#partitionkey-signature}

```typescript
partitionKey: string | null;
```