{"kind":"Interface","title":"FluidCacheConfig Interface","members":{"PropertySignature":{"logger":"/docs/apis/driver-web-cache/fluidcacheconfig#logger-PropertySignature","maxCacheItemAge":"/docs/apis/driver-web-cache/fluidcacheconfig#maxcacheitemage-PropertySignature","partitionKey":"/docs/apis/driver-web-cache/fluidcacheconfig#partitionkey-PropertySignature"}},"package":"@fluidframework/driver-web-cache","unscopedPackageName":"driver-web-cache"}

[//]: # (Do not edit this file. It is automatically generated by API Documenter.)

[Packages](/docs/apis/) &gt; [@fluidframework/driver-web-cache](/docs/apis/driver-web-cache) &gt; [FluidCacheConfig](/docs/apis/driver-web-cache/fluidcacheconfig)

<b>Signature:</b>

```typescript
export interface FluidCacheConfig 
```

## Properties

<table class="table table-striped table-hover property-list">
<caption>List of properties on this interface</caption>
  <thead>
    <tr>
     <th scope="col">Property</th>
 <th scope="col">Type</th>
 <th scope="col">Description</th>
    </tr>
  </thead>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td><a href='/docs/apis/driver-web-cache/fluidcacheconfig#logger-PropertySignature'>logger</a></td>
      <td><a href='/docs/apis/common-definitions/itelemetrybaselogger'>ITelemetryBaseLogger</a></td>
      <td>A logger that can be used to get insight into cache performance and errors</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td><a href='/docs/apis/driver-web-cache/fluidcacheconfig#maxcacheitemage-PropertySignature'>maxCacheItemAge</a></td>
      <td>number</td>
      <td>A value in milliseconds that determines the maximum age of a cache entry to return. If an entry exists in the cache, but is older than this value, the cached value will not be returned.</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td><a href='/docs/apis/driver-web-cache/fluidcacheconfig#partitionkey-PropertySignature'>partitionKey</a></td>
      <td>string | null</td>
      <td>A string to specify what partition of the cache you wish to use (e.g. a user id). Null can be used to explicity indicate no partitioning, and has been chosen vs undefined so that it is clear this is an intentional choice by the caller. A null value should only be used when the host can ensure that the cache is not able to be shared with multiple users.</td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

<hr><div id=interface-details>

## Property Details {#properties-details}

### logger {#logger-PropertySignature}

A logger that can be used to get insight into cache performance and errors

<b>Signature:</b>

```typescript
logger?: ITelemetryBaseLogger;
```

### maxCacheItemAge {#maxcacheitemage-PropertySignature}

A value in milliseconds that determines the maximum age of a cache entry to return. If an entry exists in the cache, but is older than this value, the cached value will not be returned.

<b>Signature:</b>

```typescript
maxCacheItemAge: number;
```

### partitionKey {#partitionkey-PropertySignature}

A string to specify what partition of the cache you wish to use (e.g. a user id). Null can be used to explicity indicate no partitioning, and has been chosen vs undefined so that it is clear this is an intentional choice by the caller. A null value should only be used when the host can ensure that the cache is not able to be shared with multiple users.

<b>Signature:</b>

```typescript
partitionKey: string | null;
```

</div>
