{
  "title": "IContainerRuntimeOptions Interface",
  "summary": "Options for container runtime.",
  "kind": "Interface",
  "members": {
    "PropertySignature": {
      "chunkSizeInBytes": "/docs/apis/container-runtime\\icontainerruntimeoptions-interface#chunksizeinbytes-propertysignature",
      "compressionOptions": "/docs/apis/container-runtime\\icontainerruntimeoptions-interface#compressionoptions-propertysignature",
      "enableOfflineLoad": "/docs/apis/container-runtime\\icontainerruntimeoptions-interface#enableofflineload-propertysignature",
      "enableOpReentryCheck": "/docs/apis/container-runtime\\icontainerruntimeoptions-interface#enableopreentrycheck-propertysignature",
      "flushMode": "/docs/apis/container-runtime\\icontainerruntimeoptions-interface#flushmode-propertysignature",
      "gcOptions": "/docs/apis/container-runtime\\icontainerruntimeoptions-interface#gcoptions-propertysignature",
      "loadSequenceNumberVerification": "/docs/apis/container-runtime\\icontainerruntimeoptions-interface#loadsequencenumberverification-propertysignature",
      "maxBatchSizeInBytes": "/docs/apis/container-runtime\\icontainerruntimeoptions-interface#maxbatchsizeinbytes-propertysignature",
      "summaryOptions": "/docs/apis/container-runtime\\icontainerruntimeoptions-interface#summaryoptions-propertysignature"
    }
  },
  "package": "@fluidframework/container-runtime",
  "unscopedPackageName": "container-runtime"
}

[//]: # (Do not edit this file. It is automatically generated by @fluidtools/api-markdown-documenter.)

[Packages](/docs/apis/) &gt; [@fluidframework/container-runtime](/docs/apis/container-runtime) &gt; [IContainerRuntimeOptions](/docs/apis/container-runtime\icontainerruntimeoptions-interface)

Options for container runtime.

## Signature {#icontainerruntimeoptions-signature}

```typescript
export interface IContainerRuntimeOptions 
```

## Properties

<table class="table table-striped table-hover">
  <thead>
    <tr>
      <th scope="col">
        Property
      </th>
      <th scope="col">
        Modifiers
      </th>
      <th scope="col">
        Type
      </th>
      <th scope="col">
        Description
      </th>
    </tr>
  </thead>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td>
        <a href='/docs/apis/container-runtime\icontainerruntimeoptions-interface#chunksizeinbytes-propertysignature'>chunkSizeInBytes</a>
      </td>
      <td>
        <code>optional</code>
      </td>
      <td>
        number
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>If the op payload needs to be chunked in order to work around the maximum size of the batch, this value represents how large the individual chunks will be. This is only supported when compression is enabled.</p><p>If unspecified, if a batch exceeds <code>maxBatchSizeInBytes</code> after compression, the container will close with an instance of <code>GenericError</code> with the <code>BatchTooLarge</code> message.</p><p>Not ready for use.</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>
        <a href='/docs/apis/container-runtime\icontainerruntimeoptions-interface#compressionoptions-propertysignature'>compressionOptions</a>
      </td>
      <td>
        <code>optional</code>
      </td>
      <td>
        <a href='/docs/apis/container-runtime\icompressionruntimeoptions-interface'>ICompressionRuntimeOptions</a>
      </td>
      <td>
        Enables the runtime to compress ops. Compression is disabled when undefined. Not ready for use.
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>
        <a href='/docs/apis/container-runtime\icontainerruntimeoptions-interface#enableofflineload-propertysignature'>enableOfflineLoad</a>
      </td>
      <td>
        <code>optional</code>
      </td>
      <td>
        boolean
      </td>
      <td>
        Save enough runtime state to be able to serialize upon request and load to the same state in a new container.
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>
        <a href='/docs/apis/container-runtime\icontainerruntimeoptions-interface#enableopreentrycheck-propertysignature'>enableOpReentryCheck</a>
      </td>
      <td>
        <code>optional</code>
      </td>
      <td>
        boolean
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>If enabled, the runtime will block all attempts to send an op inside the <i>ContainerRuntime#ensureNoDataModelChanges</i> callback. The callback is used by <a href='/docs/apis/shared-object-base\sharedobjectcore-class'>SharedObjectCore</a> for event handlers so enabling this will disallow modifying DDSes while handling DDS events.</p><p>By default, the feature is disabled. If enabled from options, the <code>Fluid.ContainerRuntime.DisableOpReentryCheck</code> can be used to disable it at runtime.</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>
        <a href='/docs/apis/container-runtime\icontainerruntimeoptions-interface#flushmode-propertysignature'>flushMode</a>
      </td>
      <td>
        <code>optional</code>
      </td>
      <td>
        <a href='/docs/apis/runtime-definitions#flushmode-enum'>FlushMode</a>
      </td>
      <td>
        Sets the flush mode for the runtime. In Immediate flush mode the runtime will immediately send all operations to the driver layer, while in TurnBased the operations will be buffered and then sent them as a single batch at the end of the turn. By default, flush mode is TurnBased.
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>
        <a href='/docs/apis/container-runtime\icontainerruntimeoptions-interface#gcoptions-propertysignature'>gcOptions</a>
      </td>
      <td>
        <code>optional</code>
      </td>
      <td>
        <a href='/docs/apis/container-runtime\igcruntimeoptions-interface'>IGCRuntimeOptions</a>
      </td>
      <td>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>
        <a href='/docs/apis/container-runtime\icontainerruntimeoptions-interface#loadsequencenumberverification-propertysignature'>loadSequenceNumberVerification</a>
      </td>
      <td>
        <code>optional</code>
      </td>
      <td>
        "close" | "log" | "bypass"
      </td>
      <td>
        Affects the behavior while loading the runtime when the data verification check which compares the DeltaManager sequence number (obtained from protocol in summary) to the runtime sequence number (obtained from runtime metadata in summary) finds a mismatch. 1. "close" (default) will close the container with an assertion. 2. "log" will log an error event to telemetry, but still continue to load. 3. "bypass" will skip the check entirely. This is not recommended.
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>
        <a href='/docs/apis/container-runtime\icontainerruntimeoptions-interface#maxbatchsizeinbytes-propertysignature'>maxBatchSizeInBytes</a>
      </td>
      <td>
        <code>optional</code>
      </td>
      <td>
        number
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>If specified, when in FlushMode.TurnBased, if the size of the ops between JS turns exceeds this value, an error will be thrown and the container will close.</p><p>If unspecified, the limit is 950 * 1024.</p><p>'Infinity' will disable any limit.</p><p>This config should be driven by the connection with the service and will be moved in the future.</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>
        <a href='/docs/apis/container-runtime\icontainerruntimeoptions-interface#summaryoptions-propertysignature'>summaryOptions</a>
      </td>
      <td>
        <code>optional</code>
      </td>
      <td>
        <a href='/docs/apis/container-runtime\isummaryruntimeoptions-interface'>ISummaryRuntimeOptions</a>
      </td>
      <td>
      </td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

## Property Details

### chunkSizeInBytes {#chunksizeinbytes-propertysignature}

If the op payload needs to be chunked in order to work around the maximum size of the batch, this value represents how large the individual chunks will be. This is only supported when compression is enabled.

If unspecified, if a batch exceeds `maxBatchSizeInBytes` after compression, the container will close with an instance of `GenericError` with the `BatchTooLarge` message.

Not ready for use.

#### Signature {#chunksizeinbytes-signature}

```typescript
readonly chunkSizeInBytes?: number;
```

### compressionOptions {#compressionoptions-propertysignature}

Enables the runtime to compress ops. Compression is disabled when undefined. Not ready for use.

#### Signature {#compressionoptions-signature}

```typescript
readonly compressionOptions?: ICompressionRuntimeOptions;
```

### enableOfflineLoad {#enableofflineload-propertysignature}

Save enough runtime state to be able to serialize upon request and load to the same state in a new container.

#### Signature {#enableofflineload-signature}

```typescript
readonly enableOfflineLoad?: boolean;
```

### enableOpReentryCheck {#enableopreentrycheck-propertysignature}

If enabled, the runtime will block all attempts to send an op inside the <i>ContainerRuntime\#ensureNoDataModelChanges</i> callback. The callback is used by [SharedObjectCore](/docs/apis/shared-object-base\sharedobjectcore-class) for event handlers so enabling this will disallow modifying DDSes while handling DDS events.

By default, the feature is disabled. If enabled from options, the `Fluid.ContainerRuntime.DisableOpReentryCheck` can be used to disable it at runtime.

#### Signature {#enableopreentrycheck-signature}

```typescript
readonly enableOpReentryCheck?: boolean;
```

### flushMode {#flushmode-propertysignature}

Sets the flush mode for the runtime. In Immediate flush mode the runtime will immediately send all operations to the driver layer, while in TurnBased the operations will be buffered and then sent them as a single batch at the end of the turn. By default, flush mode is TurnBased.

#### Signature {#flushmode-signature}

```typescript
readonly flushMode?: FlushMode;
```

### gcOptions {#gcoptions-propertysignature}

#### Signature {#gcoptions-signature}

```typescript
readonly gcOptions?: IGCRuntimeOptions;
```

### loadSequenceNumberVerification {#loadsequencenumberverification-propertysignature}

Affects the behavior while loading the runtime when the data verification check which compares the DeltaManager sequence number (obtained from protocol in summary) to the runtime sequence number (obtained from runtime metadata in summary) finds a mismatch. 1. "close" (default) will close the container with an assertion. 2. "log" will log an error event to telemetry, but still continue to load. 3. "bypass" will skip the check entirely. This is not recommended.

#### Signature {#loadsequencenumberverification-signature}

```typescript
readonly loadSequenceNumberVerification?: "close" | "log" | "bypass";
```

### maxBatchSizeInBytes {#maxbatchsizeinbytes-propertysignature}

If specified, when in FlushMode.TurnBased, if the size of the ops between JS turns exceeds this value, an error will be thrown and the container will close.

If unspecified, the limit is 950 \* 1024.

'Infinity' will disable any limit.

This config should be driven by the connection with the service and will be moved in the future.

#### Signature {#maxbatchsizeinbytes-signature}

```typescript
readonly maxBatchSizeInBytes?: number;
```

### summaryOptions {#summaryoptions-propertysignature}

#### Signature {#summaryoptions-signature}

```typescript
readonly summaryOptions?: ISummaryRuntimeOptions;
```