{"kind":"Interface","title":"IContainerRuntimeOptions Interface","summary":"Options for container runtime.","members":{"PropertySignature":{"enableOfflineLoad":"/docs/apis/container-runtime/icontainerruntimeoptions#enableofflineload-PropertySignature","flushMode":"/docs/apis/container-runtime/icontainerruntimeoptions#flushmode-PropertySignature","gcOptions":"/docs/apis/container-runtime/icontainerruntimeoptions#gcoptions-PropertySignature","loadSequenceNumberVerification":"/docs/apis/container-runtime/icontainerruntimeoptions#loadsequencenumberverification-PropertySignature","summaryOptions":"/docs/apis/container-runtime/icontainerruntimeoptions#summaryoptions-PropertySignature","useDataStoreAliasing":"/docs/apis/container-runtime/icontainerruntimeoptions#usedatastorealiasing-PropertySignature"}},"package":"@fluidframework/container-runtime","unscopedPackageName":"container-runtime"}

[//]: # (Do not edit this file. It is automatically generated by API Documenter.)

[Packages](/docs/apis/) &gt; [@fluidframework/container-runtime](/docs/apis/container-runtime) &gt; [IContainerRuntimeOptions](/docs/apis/container-runtime/icontainerruntimeoptions)

Options for container runtime.

<b>Signature:</b>

```typescript
export interface IContainerRuntimeOptions 
```

## Properties

<table class="table table-striped table-hover property-list">
<caption>List of properties on this interface</caption>
  <thead>
    <tr>
     <th scope="col">Property</th>
 <th scope="col">Type</th>
 <th scope="col">Description</th>
    </tr>
  </thead>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td><a href='/docs/apis/container-runtime/icontainerruntimeoptions#enableofflineload-PropertySignature'>enableOfflineLoad</a></td>
      <td>boolean</td>
      <td>Save enough runtime state to be able to serialize upon request and load to the same state in a new container.</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td><a href='/docs/apis/container-runtime/icontainerruntimeoptions#flushmode-PropertySignature'>flushMode</a></td>
      <td><a href='/docs/apis/runtime-definitions#flushmode-Enum'>FlushMode</a></td>
      <td>Sets the flush mode for the runtime. In Immediate flush mode the runtime will immediately send all operations to the driver layer, while in TurnBased the operations will be buffered and then sent them as a single batch at the end of the turn. By default, flush mode is TurnBased.</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td><a href='/docs/apis/container-runtime/icontainerruntimeoptions#gcoptions-PropertySignature'>gcOptions</a></td>
      <td><a href='/docs/apis/container-runtime/igcruntimeoptions'>IGCRuntimeOptions</a></td>
      <td></td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td><a href='/docs/apis/container-runtime/icontainerruntimeoptions#loadsequencenumberverification-PropertySignature'>loadSequenceNumberVerification</a></td>
      <td>"close" | "log" | "bypass"</td>
      <td>Affects the behavior while loading the runtime when the data verification check which compares the DeltaManager sequence number (obtained from protocol in summary) to the runtime sequence number (obtained from runtime metadata in summary) finds a mismatch. 1. "close" (default) will close the container with an assertion. 2. "log" will log an error event to telemetry, but still continue to load. 3. "bypass" will skip the check entirely. This is not recommended.</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td><a href='/docs/apis/container-runtime/icontainerruntimeoptions#summaryoptions-PropertySignature'>summaryOptions</a></td>
      <td><a href='/docs/apis/container-runtime/isummaryruntimeoptions'>ISummaryRuntimeOptions</a></td>
      <td></td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td><a href='/docs/apis/container-runtime/icontainerruntimeoptions#usedatastorealiasing-PropertySignature'>useDataStoreAliasing</a></td>
      <td>boolean</td>
      <td>Should the runtime use data store aliasing for creating root datastores. In case of aliasing conflicts, the runtime will raise an exception which does not effect the status of the container.</td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

<hr><div id=interface-details>

## Property Details {#properties-details}

### enableOfflineLoad {#enableofflineload-PropertySignature}

Save enough runtime state to be able to serialize upon request and load to the same state in a new container.

<b>Signature:</b>

```typescript
readonly enableOfflineLoad?: boolean;
```

### flushMode {#flushmode-PropertySignature}

Sets the flush mode for the runtime. In Immediate flush mode the runtime will immediately send all operations to the driver layer, while in TurnBased the operations will be buffered and then sent them as a single batch at the end of the turn. By default, flush mode is TurnBased.

<b>Signature:</b>

```typescript
readonly flushMode?: FlushMode;
```

### gcOptions {#gcoptions-PropertySignature}

<b>Signature:</b>

```typescript
readonly gcOptions?: IGCRuntimeOptions;
```

### loadSequenceNumberVerification {#loadsequencenumberverification-PropertySignature}

Affects the behavior while loading the runtime when the data verification check which compares the DeltaManager sequence number (obtained from protocol in summary) to the runtime sequence number (obtained from runtime metadata in summary) finds a mismatch. 1. "close" (default) will close the container with an assertion. 2. "log" will log an error event to telemetry, but still continue to load. 3. "bypass" will skip the check entirely. This is not recommended.

<b>Signature:</b>

```typescript
readonly loadSequenceNumberVerification?: "close" | "log" | "bypass";
```

### summaryOptions {#summaryoptions-PropertySignature}

<b>Signature:</b>

```typescript
readonly summaryOptions?: ISummaryRuntimeOptions;
```

### useDataStoreAliasing {#usedatastorealiasing-PropertySignature}

Should the runtime use data store aliasing for creating root datastores. In case of aliasing conflicts, the runtime will raise an exception which does not effect the status of the container.

<b>Signature:</b>

```typescript
readonly useDataStoreAliasing?: boolean;
```

</div>
