{"kind":"Interface","title":"IGCRuntimeOptions Interface","members":{"IndexSignature":{"(indexer)":"/docs/apis/container-runtime/igcruntimeoptions#_indexer_-IndexSignature"},"PropertySignature":{"disableGC":"/docs/apis/container-runtime/igcruntimeoptions#disablegc-PropertySignature","gcAllowed":"/docs/apis/container-runtime/igcruntimeoptions#gcallowed-PropertySignature","runFullGC":"/docs/apis/container-runtime/igcruntimeoptions#runfullgc-PropertySignature","sessionExpiryTimeoutMs":"/docs/apis/container-runtime/igcruntimeoptions#sessionexpirytimeoutms-PropertySignature","sweepAllowed":"/docs/apis/container-runtime/igcruntimeoptions#sweepallowed-PropertySignature"}},"package":"@fluidframework/container-runtime","unscopedPackageName":"container-runtime"}

[//]: # (Do not edit this file. It is automatically generated by API Documenter.)

[Packages](/docs/apis/) &gt; [@fluidframework/container-runtime](/docs/apis/container-runtime) &gt; [IGCRuntimeOptions](/docs/apis/container-runtime/igcruntimeoptions)

<b>Signature:</b>

```typescript
export interface IGCRuntimeOptions 
```

## Properties

<table class="table table-striped table-hover property-list">
<caption>List of properties on this interface</caption>
  <thead>
    <tr>
     <th scope="col">Property</th>
 <th scope="col">Type</th>
 <th scope="col">Description</th>
    </tr>
  </thead>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td><a href='/docs/apis/container-runtime/igcruntimeoptions#disablegc-PropertySignature'>disableGC</a></td>
      <td>boolean</td>
      <td>Flag that if true, will disable garbage collection for the session. Can be used to disable running GC on containers where it is allowed via the gcAllowed option.</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td><a href='/docs/apis/container-runtime/igcruntimeoptions#gcallowed-PropertySignature'>gcAllowed</a></td>
      <td>boolean</td>
      <td>Flag that if true, will enable running garbage collection (GC) for a new container.<!-- -->GC has mark phase and sweep phase. In mark phase, unreferenced objects are identified and marked as such in the summary. This option enables the mark phase. In sweep phase, unreferenced objects are eventually deleted from the container if they meet certain conditions. Sweep phase can be enabled via the "sweepAllowed" option.<!-- -->Note: This setting is persisted in the container's summary and cannot be changed.</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td><a href='/docs/apis/container-runtime/igcruntimeoptions#runfullgc-PropertySignature'>runFullGC</a></td>
      <td>boolean</td>
      <td>Flag that will bypass optimizations and generate GC data for all nodes irrespective of whether a node changed or not.</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td><a href='/docs/apis/container-runtime/igcruntimeoptions#sessionexpirytimeoutms-PropertySignature'>sessionExpiryTimeoutMs</a></td>
      <td>number</td>
      <td>Maximum session duration for a new container. If not present, a default value will be used.<!-- -->Note: This setting is persisted in the container's summary and cannot be changed.</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td><a href='/docs/apis/container-runtime/igcruntimeoptions#sweepallowed-PropertySignature'>sweepAllowed</a></td>
      <td>boolean</td>
      <td>Flag that if true, enables GC's sweep phase for a new container.<!-- -->This will allow GC to eventually delete unreferenced objects from the container. This flag should only be set to true if "gcAllowed" is true.<!-- -->Note: This setting is persisted in the container's summary and cannot be changed.</td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

<hr><div id=interface-details>

## Property Details {#properties-details}

### disableGC {#disablegc-PropertySignature}

Flag that if true, will disable garbage collection for the session. Can be used to disable running GC on containers where it is allowed via the gcAllowed option.

<b>Signature:</b>

```typescript
disableGC?: boolean;
```

### gcAllowed {#gcallowed-PropertySignature}

Flag that if true, will enable running garbage collection (GC) for a new container.

GC has mark phase and sweep phase. In mark phase, unreferenced objects are identified and marked as such in the summary. This option enables the mark phase. In sweep phase, unreferenced objects are eventually deleted from the container if they meet certain conditions. Sweep phase can be enabled via the "sweepAllowed" option.

Note: This setting is persisted in the container's summary and cannot be changed.

<b>Signature:</b>

```typescript
gcAllowed?: boolean;
```

### runFullGC {#runfullgc-PropertySignature}

Flag that will bypass optimizations and generate GC data for all nodes irrespective of whether a node changed or not.

<b>Signature:</b>

```typescript
runFullGC?: boolean;
```

### sessionExpiryTimeoutMs {#sessionexpirytimeoutms-PropertySignature}

Maximum session duration for a new container. If not present, a default value will be used.

Note: This setting is persisted in the container's summary and cannot be changed.

<b>Signature:</b>

```typescript
sessionExpiryTimeoutMs?: number;
```

### sweepAllowed {#sweepallowed-PropertySignature}

Flag that if true, enables GC's sweep phase for a new container.

This will allow GC to eventually delete unreferenced objects from the container. This flag should only be set to true if "gcAllowed" is true.

Note: This setting is persisted in the container's summary and cannot be changed.

<b>Signature:</b>

```typescript
sweepAllowed?: boolean;
```

</div>
