{"kind":"Interface","title":"IGeneratedSummaryStats Interface","summary":"In addition to the normal summary tree + stats, this contains additional stats only relevant at the root of the tree.","members":{"PropertySignature":{"dataStoreCount":"/docs/apis/container-runtime/igeneratedsummarystats#datastorecount-PropertySignature","gcBlobNodeCount":"/docs/apis/container-runtime/igeneratedsummarystats#gcblobnodecount-PropertySignature","gcStateUpdatedDataStoreCount":"/docs/apis/container-runtime/igeneratedsummarystats#gcstateupdateddatastorecount-PropertySignature","gcTotalBlobsSize":"/docs/apis/container-runtime/igeneratedsummarystats#gctotalblobssize-PropertySignature","summarizedDataStoreCount":"/docs/apis/container-runtime/igeneratedsummarystats#summarizeddatastorecount-PropertySignature","summaryNumber":"/docs/apis/container-runtime/igeneratedsummarystats#summarynumber-PropertySignature"}},"package":"@fluidframework/container-runtime","unscopedPackageName":"container-runtime"}

[//]: # (Do not edit this file. It is automatically generated by API Documenter.)

[Packages](/docs/apis/) &gt; [@fluidframework/container-runtime](/docs/apis/container-runtime) &gt; [IGeneratedSummaryStats](/docs/apis/container-runtime/igeneratedsummarystats)

In addition to the normal summary tree + stats, this contains additional stats only relevant at the root of the tree.

<b>Signature:</b>

```typescript
export interface IGeneratedSummaryStats extends ISummaryStats 
```
<b>Extends:</b> [ISummaryStats](/docs/apis/runtime-definitions/isummarystats)

## Properties

<table class="table table-striped table-hover property-list">
<caption>List of properties on this interface</caption>
  <thead>
    <tr>
     <th scope="col">Property</th>
 <th scope="col">Type</th>
 <th scope="col">Description</th>
    </tr>
  </thead>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td><a href='/docs/apis/container-runtime/igeneratedsummarystats#datastorecount-PropertySignature'>dataStoreCount</a></td>
      <td>number</td>
      <td>The total number of data stores in the container.</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td><a href='/docs/apis/container-runtime/igeneratedsummarystats#gcblobnodecount-PropertySignature'>gcBlobNodeCount</a></td>
      <td>number</td>
      <td>The number of gc blobs in this summary.</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td><a href='/docs/apis/container-runtime/igeneratedsummarystats#gcstateupdateddatastorecount-PropertySignature'>gcStateUpdatedDataStoreCount</a></td>
      <td>number</td>
      <td>The number of data stores whose GC reference state was updated in this summary.</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td><a href='/docs/apis/container-runtime/igeneratedsummarystats#gctotalblobssize-PropertySignature'>gcTotalBlobsSize</a></td>
      <td>number</td>
      <td>The size of the gc blobs in this summary.</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td><a href='/docs/apis/container-runtime/igeneratedsummarystats#summarizeddatastorecount-PropertySignature'>summarizedDataStoreCount</a></td>
      <td>number</td>
      <td>The number of data stores that were summarized in this summary.</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td><a href='/docs/apis/container-runtime/igeneratedsummarystats#summarynumber-PropertySignature'>summaryNumber</a></td>
      <td>number</td>
      <td>The summary number for a container's summary. Incremented on summaries throughout its lifetime.</td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

<hr><div id=interface-details>

## Property Details {#properties-details}

### dataStoreCount {#datastorecount-PropertySignature}

The total number of data stores in the container.

<b>Signature:</b>

```typescript
readonly dataStoreCount: number;
```

### gcBlobNodeCount {#gcblobnodecount-PropertySignature}

The number of gc blobs in this summary.

<b>Signature:</b>

```typescript
readonly gcBlobNodeCount?: number;
```

### gcStateUpdatedDataStoreCount {#gcstateupdateddatastorecount-PropertySignature}

The number of data stores whose GC reference state was updated in this summary.

<b>Signature:</b>

```typescript
readonly gcStateUpdatedDataStoreCount?: number;
```

### gcTotalBlobsSize {#gctotalblobssize-PropertySignature}

The size of the gc blobs in this summary.

<b>Signature:</b>

```typescript
readonly gcTotalBlobsSize?: number;
```

### summarizedDataStoreCount {#summarizeddatastorecount-PropertySignature}

The number of data stores that were summarized in this summary.

<b>Signature:</b>

```typescript
readonly summarizedDataStoreCount: number;
```

### summaryNumber {#summarynumber-PropertySignature}

The summary number for a container's summary. Incremented on summaries throughout its lifetime.

<b>Signature:</b>

```typescript
readonly summaryNumber: number;
```

</div>
