{"kind":"Interface","title":"IPendingRuntimeState Interface","summary":"State saved when the container closes, to be given back to a newly instantiated runtime in a new instance of the container, so it can load to the same state","members":{"PropertySignature":{"baseSnapshot":"/docs/apis/container-runtime/ipendingruntimestate#basesnapshot-PropertySignature","pending":"/docs/apis/container-runtime/ipendingruntimestate#pending-PropertySignature","savedOps":"/docs/apis/container-runtime/ipendingruntimestate#savedops-PropertySignature","snapshotBlobs":"/docs/apis/container-runtime/ipendingruntimestate#snapshotblobs-PropertySignature"}},"package":"@fluidframework/container-runtime","unscopedPackageName":"container-runtime"}

[//]: # (Do not edit this file. It is automatically generated by API Documenter.)

[Packages](/docs/apis/) &gt; [@fluidframework/container-runtime](/docs/apis/container-runtime) &gt; [IPendingRuntimeState](/docs/apis/container-runtime/ipendingruntimestate)

State saved when the container closes, to be given back to a newly instantiated runtime in a new instance of the container, so it can load to the same state

<b>Signature:</b>

```typescript
export interface IPendingRuntimeState 
```

## Properties

<table class="table table-striped table-hover property-list">
<caption>List of properties on this interface</caption>
  <thead>
    <tr>
     <th scope="col">Property</th>
 <th scope="col">Type</th>
 <th scope="col">Description</th>
    </tr>
  </thead>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td><a href='/docs/apis/container-runtime/ipendingruntimestate#basesnapshot-PropertySignature'>baseSnapshot</a></td>
      <td><a href='/docs/apis/protocol-definitions/isnapshottree'>ISnapshotTree</a></td>
      <td>A base snapshot at a sequence number prior to the first pending op</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td><a href='/docs/apis/container-runtime/ipendingruntimestate#pending-PropertySignature'>pending</a></td>
      <td><a href='/docs/apis/container-runtime/ipendinglocalstate'>IPendingLocalState</a></td>
      <td>Pending ops from PendingStateManager</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td><a href='/docs/apis/container-runtime/ipendingruntimestate#savedops-PropertySignature'>savedOps</a></td>
      <td><a href='/docs/apis/protocol-definitions/isequenceddocumentmessage'>ISequencedDocumentMessage</a>[]</td>
      <td>All runtime ops since base snapshot sequence number up to the latest op seen when the container was closed. Used to apply stashed (saved pending) ops at the same sequence number at which they were made.</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td><a href='/docs/apis/container-runtime/ipendingruntimestate#snapshotblobs-PropertySignature'>snapshotBlobs</a></td>
      <td>ISerializedBaseSnapshotBlobs</td>
      <td>Serialized blobs from the base snapshot. Used to load offline since storage is not available.</td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

<hr><div id=interface-details>

## Property Details {#properties-details}

### baseSnapshot {#basesnapshot-PropertySignature}

A base snapshot at a sequence number prior to the first pending op

<b>Signature:</b>

```typescript
baseSnapshot: ISnapshotTree;
```

### pending {#pending-PropertySignature}

Pending ops from PendingStateManager

<b>Signature:</b>

```typescript
pending?: IPendingLocalState;
```

### savedOps {#savedops-PropertySignature}

All runtime ops since base snapshot sequence number up to the latest op seen when the container was closed. Used to apply stashed (saved pending) ops at the same sequence number at which they were made.

<b>Signature:</b>

```typescript
savedOps: ISequencedDocumentMessage[];
```

### snapshotBlobs {#snapshotblobs-PropertySignature}

Serialized blobs from the base snapshot. Used to load offline since storage is not available.

<b>Signature:</b>

```typescript
snapshotBlobs: ISerializedBaseSnapshotBlobs;
```

</div>
