{"kind":"Interface","title":"ISummaryBaseConfiguration Interface","members":{"PropertySignature":{"initialSummarizerDelayMs":"/docs/apis/container-runtime/isummarybaseconfiguration#initialsummarizerdelayms-PropertySignature","maxAckWaitTime":"/docs/apis/container-runtime/isummarybaseconfiguration#maxackwaittime-PropertySignature","maxOpsSinceLastSummary":"/docs/apis/container-runtime/isummarybaseconfiguration#maxopssincelastsummary-PropertySignature","summarizerClientElection":"/docs/apis/container-runtime/isummarybaseconfiguration#summarizerclientelection-PropertySignature"}},"package":"@fluidframework/container-runtime","unscopedPackageName":"container-runtime"}

[//]: # (Do not edit this file. It is automatically generated by API Documenter.)

[Packages](/docs/apis/) &gt; [@fluidframework/container-runtime](/docs/apis/container-runtime) &gt; [ISummaryBaseConfiguration](/docs/apis/container-runtime/isummarybaseconfiguration)

<b>Signature:</b>

```typescript
export interface ISummaryBaseConfiguration 
```

## Properties

<table class="table table-striped table-hover property-list">
<caption>List of properties on this interface</caption>
  <thead>
    <tr>
     <th scope="col">Property</th>
 <th scope="col">Type</th>
 <th scope="col">Description</th>
    </tr>
  </thead>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td><a href='/docs/apis/container-runtime/isummarybaseconfiguration#initialsummarizerdelayms-PropertySignature'>initialSummarizerDelayMs</a></td>
      <td>number</td>
      <td>Delay before first attempt to spawn summarizing container.</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td><a href='/docs/apis/container-runtime/isummarybaseconfiguration#maxackwaittime-PropertySignature'>maxAckWaitTime</a></td>
      <td>number</td>
      <td>Defines the maximum allowed time to wait for a pending summary ack. The maximum amount of time client will wait for a summarize is the minimum of maxSummarizeAckWaitTime (currently 10 * 60 * 1000) and maxAckWaitTime.</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td><a href='/docs/apis/container-runtime/isummarybaseconfiguration#maxopssincelastsummary-PropertySignature'>maxOpsSinceLastSummary</a></td>
      <td>number</td>
      <td>Defines the maximum number of Ops in between Summaries that can be allowed before forcibly electing a new summarizer client.</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td><a href='/docs/apis/container-runtime/isummarybaseconfiguration#summarizerclientelection-PropertySignature'>summarizerClientElection</a></td>
      <td>boolean</td>
      <td>Flag that will enable changing elected summarizer client after maxOpsSinceLastSummary. This defaults to false (disabled) and must be explicitly set to true to enable.</td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

<hr><div id=interface-details>

## Property Details {#properties-details}

### initialSummarizerDelayMs {#initialsummarizerdelayms-PropertySignature}

Delay before first attempt to spawn summarizing container.

<b>Signature:</b>

```typescript
initialSummarizerDelayMs: number;
```

### maxAckWaitTime {#maxackwaittime-PropertySignature}

Defines the maximum allowed time to wait for a pending summary ack. The maximum amount of time client will wait for a summarize is the minimum of maxSummarizeAckWaitTime (currently 10 \* 60 \* 1000) and maxAckWaitTime.

<b>Signature:</b>

```typescript
maxAckWaitTime: number;
```

### maxOpsSinceLastSummary {#maxopssincelastsummary-PropertySignature}

Defines the maximum number of Ops in between Summaries that can be allowed before forcibly electing a new summarizer client.

<b>Signature:</b>

```typescript
maxOpsSinceLastSummary: number;
```

### summarizerClientElection {#summarizerclientelection-PropertySignature}

Flag that will enable changing elected summarizer client after maxOpsSinceLastSummary. This defaults to false (disabled) and must be explicitly set to true to enable.

<b>Signature:</b>

```typescript
summarizerClientElection: boolean;
```

</div>
