{"kind":"Package","title":"@fluidframework/container-definitions Package","summary":"This package contains the interfaces and types concerning the `Loader` and loading the `Container`<!-- -->.","members":{"Enum":{"AttachState":"/docs/apis/container-definitions#attachstate-Enum"}},"package":"@fluidframework/container-definitions","unscopedPackageName":"container-definitions"}

[//]: # (Do not edit this file. It is automatically generated by API Documenter.)

[Packages](/docs/apis/) &gt; [@fluidframework/container-definitions](/docs/apis/container-definitions)

This package contains the interfaces and types concerning the `Loader` and loading the `Container`<!-- -->.

## Enumerations

<table class="table table-striped table-hover enum-list">
<caption>List of enums contained in this package</caption>
  <thead>
    <tr>
     <th scope="col">Enumeration</th>
 <th scope="col">Description</th>
    </tr>
  </thead>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td><a href='/docs/apis/container-definitions#attachstate-Enum'>AttachState</a></td>
      <td>The attachment state of some Fluid data (e.g. a container or data store), denoting whether it is uploaded to the service. The transition from detached to attached state is a one-way transition.</td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

<hr><div id=package-details>

## Enumeration Details {#enumerations-details}

### AttachState enum {#attachstate-Enum}

The attachment state of some Fluid data (e.g. a container or data store), denoting whether it is uploaded to the service. The transition from detached to attached state is a one-way transition.

<b>Signature:</b>

```typescript
export declare enum AttachState 
```

### Enumeration Members

<table class="table table-striped table-hover enum-list">
<caption>List of members in use in this enum</caption>
  <thead>
    <tr>
     <th scope="col">Member</th>
 <th scope="col">Value</th>
 <th scope="col">Description</th>
    </tr>
  </thead>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td>Attached</td>
      <td><code>&quot;Attached&quot;</code></td>
      <td>In attached state, the data has completed upload to the service. It can be accessed by other clients after reaching attached state.</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>Attaching</td>
      <td><code>&quot;Attaching&quot;</code></td>
      <td>In attaching state, the data has started the upload to the service, but has not yet completed.</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>Detached</td>
      <td><code>&quot;Detached&quot;</code></td>
      <td>In detached state, the data is only present on the local client's machine. It has not yet been uploaded to the service.</td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>


</div>
