{"kind":"Package","title":"@fluidframework/fluid-static Package","summary":"Provides a simple and powerful way to consume collaborative Fluid data.","members":{"Interface":{"ContainerSchema":"/docs/apis/fluid-static/containerschema","IConnection":"/docs/apis/fluid-static/iconnection","IFluidContainer":"/docs/apis/fluid-static/ifluidcontainer","IFluidContainerEvents":"/docs/apis/fluid-static/ifluidcontainerevents","IMember":"/docs/apis/fluid-static/imember","IServiceAudience":"/docs/apis/fluid-static/iserviceaudience","IServiceAudienceEvents":"/docs/apis/fluid-static/iserviceaudienceevents","RootDataObjectProps":"/docs/apis/fluid-static/rootdataobjectprops"},"TypeAlias":{"DataObjectClass":"/docs/apis/fluid-static#dataobjectclass-TypeAlias","LoadableObjectClass":"/docs/apis/fluid-static#loadableobjectclass-TypeAlias","LoadableObjectClassRecord":"/docs/apis/fluid-static#loadableobjectclassrecord-TypeAlias","LoadableObjectCtor":"/docs/apis/fluid-static#loadableobjectctor-TypeAlias","LoadableObjectRecord":"/docs/apis/fluid-static#loadableobjectrecord-TypeAlias","SharedObjectClass":"/docs/apis/fluid-static#sharedobjectclass-TypeAlias"},"Class":{"DOProviderContainerRuntimeFactory":"/docs/apis/fluid-static/doprovidercontainerruntimefactory","FluidContainer":"/docs/apis/fluid-static/fluidcontainer","RootDataObject":"/docs/apis/fluid-static/rootdataobject","ServiceAudience":"/docs/apis/fluid-static/serviceaudience"}},"package":"@fluidframework/fluid-static","unscopedPackageName":"fluid-static"}

[//]: # (Do not edit this file. It is automatically generated by API Documenter.)

[Packages](/docs/apis/) &gt; [@fluidframework/fluid-static](/docs/apis/fluid-static)

Provides a simple and powerful way to consume collaborative Fluid data.

## Classes

<table class="table table-striped table-hover class-list">
<caption>List of classes contained in this package</caption>
  <thead>
    <tr>
     <th scope="col">Class</th>
 <th scope="col">Description</th>
    </tr>
  </thead>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td><a href='/docs/apis/fluid-static/doprovidercontainerruntimefactory'>DOProviderContainerRuntimeFactory</a></td>
      <td>Container code that provides a single <a href='/docs/apis/fluid-static/rootdataobject'>RootDataObject</a>. This data object is dynamically customized (registry and initial objects) based on the schema provided to the container runtime factory.</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td><a href='/docs/apis/fluid-static/fluidcontainer'>FluidContainer</a></td>
      <td>Base <a href='/docs/apis/fluid-static/ifluidcontainer'>IFluidContainer</a> implementation.</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td><a href='/docs/apis/fluid-static/rootdataobject'>RootDataObject</a></td>
      <td>The entry-point/root collaborative object of the Fluid Container. This class abstracts the dynamic code required to build a Fluid Container into a static representation for end customers.</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td><a href='/docs/apis/fluid-static/serviceaudience'>ServiceAudience</a></td>
      <td>Base class for providing audience information for sessions interacting with FluidContainer This can be extended by different service-specific client packages to additional parameters to the user and client details returned in IMember</td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

## Interfaces

<table class="table table-striped table-hover interface-list">
<caption>List of interfaces contained in this package</caption>
  <thead>
    <tr>
     <th scope="col">Interface</th>
 <th scope="col">Description</th>
    </tr>
  </thead>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td><a href='/docs/apis/fluid-static/containerschema'>ContainerSchema</a></td>
      <td>The ContainerSchema declares the Fluid objects that will be available in the container. It includes both the instances of objects that are initially available upon container creation, as well as the types of objects that may be dynamically created throughout the lifetime of the container.</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td><a href='/docs/apis/fluid-static/iconnection'>IConnection</a></td>
      <td>Base interface for information for each connection made to the Fluid session. This interface can be extended to provide additional information specific to each service.</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td><a href='/docs/apis/fluid-static/ifluidcontainer'>IFluidContainer</a></td>
      <td>Provides an entrypoint into the client side of collaborative Fluid data. Provides access to the data as well as status on the collaboration session.</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td><a href='/docs/apis/fluid-static/ifluidcontainerevents'>IFluidContainerEvents</a></td>
      <td>Events emitted from <a href='/docs/apis/fluid-static/ifluidcontainer'>IFluidContainer</a>.</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td><a href='/docs/apis/fluid-static/imember'>IMember</a></td>
      <td>Base interface to be implemented to fetch each service's member. This interface can be extended by each service to provide additional service-specific user metadata.</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td><a href='/docs/apis/fluid-static/iserviceaudience'>IServiceAudience</a></td>
      <td>Base interface to be implemented to fetch each service's audience. The generic M allows consumers to further extend the client object with service-specific details about the connecting client, such as device information, environment, or a username.</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td><a href='/docs/apis/fluid-static/iserviceaudienceevents'>IServiceAudienceEvents</a></td>
      <td>Events that trigger when the roster of members in the Fluid session change. Only changes that would be reflected in the returned map of <a href='/docs/apis/fluid-static/iserviceaudience'>IServiceAudience</a>'s <a href='/docs/apis/fluid-static/iserviceaudience#getmembers-MethodSignature'>IServiceAudience.getMembers()</a> method will emit events.</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td><a href='/docs/apis/fluid-static/rootdataobjectprops'>RootDataObjectProps</a></td>
      <td>Input props for <a href='/docs/apis/fluid-static/rootdataobject#initializingfirsttime-Method'>RootDataObject.initializingFirstTime()</a></td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

## Type Aliases

<table class="table table-striped table-hover alias-list">
<caption>List of type aliases contained in this package</caption>
  <thead>
    <tr>
     <th scope="col">Type Alias</th>
 <th scope="col">Description</th>
    </tr>
  </thead>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td><a href='/docs/apis/fluid-static#dataobjectclass-TypeAlias'>DataObjectClass</a></td>
      <td>A DataObjectClass is a class that has a factory that can create a DataObject and a constructor that will return the type of the DataObject.</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td><a href='/docs/apis/fluid-static#loadableobjectclass-TypeAlias'>LoadableObjectClass</a></td>
      <td>A LoadableObjectClass is an class object of DataObject or SharedObject</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td><a href='/docs/apis/fluid-static#loadableobjectclassrecord-TypeAlias'>LoadableObjectClassRecord</a></td>
      <td>A mapping of string identifiers to classes that will later be used to instantiate a corresponding DataObject or SharedObject in a LoadableObjectRecord.</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td><a href='/docs/apis/fluid-static#loadableobjectctor-TypeAlias'>LoadableObjectCtor</a></td>
      <td>An object with a constructor that will return an <code>IFluidLoadable</code>.</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td><a href='/docs/apis/fluid-static#loadableobjectrecord-TypeAlias'>LoadableObjectRecord</a></td>
      <td>A mapping of string identifiers to instantiated DataObjects or SharedObjects.</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td><a href='/docs/apis/fluid-static#sharedobjectclass-TypeAlias'>SharedObjectClass</a></td>
      <td>A SharedObjectClass is a class that has a factory that can create a DDS (SharedObject) and a constructor that will return the type of the DataObject.</td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

<hr><div id=package-details>

## Type Alias Details {#type-aliases-details}

### DataObjectClass {#dataobjectclass-TypeAlias}

A DataObjectClass is a class that has a factory that can create a DataObject and a constructor that will return the type of the DataObject.

<b>Signature:</b>

```typescript
export declare type DataObjectClass<T extends IFluidLoadable> = {
    readonly factory: IFluidDataStoreFactory;
} & LoadableObjectCtor<T>;
```

### LoadableObjectClass {#loadableobjectclass-TypeAlias}

A LoadableObjectClass is an class object of DataObject or SharedObject

<b>Signature:</b>

```typescript
export declare type LoadableObjectClass<T extends IFluidLoadable> = DataObjectClass<T> | SharedObjectClass<T>;
```

### LoadableObjectClassRecord {#loadableobjectclassrecord-TypeAlias}

A mapping of string identifiers to classes that will later be used to instantiate a corresponding DataObject or SharedObject in a LoadableObjectRecord.

<b>Signature:</b>

```typescript
export declare type LoadableObjectClassRecord = Record<string, LoadableObjectClass<any>>;
```

### LoadableObjectCtor {#loadableobjectctor-TypeAlias}

An object with a constructor that will return an `IFluidLoadable`<!-- -->.

<b>Signature:</b>

```typescript
export declare type LoadableObjectCtor<T extends IFluidLoadable> = new (...args: any[]) => T;
```

### LoadableObjectRecord {#loadableobjectrecord-TypeAlias}

A mapping of string identifiers to instantiated DataObjects or SharedObjects.

<b>Signature:</b>

```typescript
export declare type LoadableObjectRecord = Record<string, IFluidLoadable>;
```

### SharedObjectClass {#sharedobjectclass-TypeAlias}

A SharedObjectClass is a class that has a factory that can create a DDS (SharedObject) and a constructor that will return the type of the DataObject.

<b>Signature:</b>

```typescript
export declare type SharedObjectClass<T extends IFluidLoadable> = {
    readonly getFactory: () => IChannelFactory;
} & LoadableObjectCtor<T>;
```

</div>
