{"kind":"Package","title":"@fluid-experimental/last-edited Package","members":{"Interface":{"IFluidLastEditedTracker":"/docs/apis/last-edited/ifluidlasteditedtracker","ILastEditDetails":"/docs/apis/last-edited/ilasteditdetails","IProvideFluidLastEditedTracker":"/docs/apis/last-edited/iprovidefluidlasteditedtracker"},"Variable":{"IFluidLastEditedTracker":"/docs/apis/last-edited#ifluidlasteditedtracker-Variable"},"Class":{"LastEditedTracker":"/docs/apis/last-edited/lasteditedtracker","LastEditedTrackerDataObject":"/docs/apis/last-edited/lasteditedtrackerdataobject"},"Function":{"setupLastEditedTrackerForContainer":"/docs/apis/last-edited#setuplasteditedtrackerforcontainer-Function"}},"package":"@fluid-experimental/last-edited","unscopedPackageName":"last-edited"}

[//]: # (Do not edit this file. It is automatically generated by API Documenter.)

[Packages](/docs/apis/) &gt; [@fluid-experimental/last-edited](/docs/apis/last-edited)

## Classes

<table class="table table-striped table-hover class-list">
<caption>List of classes contained in this package</caption>
  <thead>
    <tr>
     <th scope="col">Class</th>
 <th scope="col">Description</th>
    </tr>
  </thead>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td><a href='/docs/apis/last-edited/lasteditedtracker'>LastEditedTracker</a></td>
      <td>Tracks the last edit details such as the last edited user details and the last edited timestamp. The last edited details should be updated (via updateLastEditDetails) in response to a remote op since it uses shared summary block as storage.</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td><a href='/docs/apis/last-edited/lasteditedtrackerdataobject'>LastEditedTrackerDataObject</a></td>
      <td>LastEditedTrackerDataObject creates a LastEditedTracker that keeps track of the latest edits to the document.</td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

## Functions

<table class="table table-striped table-hover function-list">
<caption>List of functions contained in this package</caption>
  <thead>
    <tr>
     <th scope="col">Function</th>
 <th scope="col">Description</th>
    </tr>
  </thead>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td><a href='/docs/apis/last-edited#setuplasteditedtrackerforcontainer-Function'>setupLastEditedTrackerForContainer(lastEditedTracker, runtime, shouldDiscardMessageFn)</a></td>
      <td>Helper function to set up a data object that provides IFluidLastEditedTracker to track last edited in a Container. It does the following: - Registers an "op" listener on the runtime. On each message, it calls the shouldDiscardMessageFn to check if the message should be discarded. It also discards all scheduler message. If a message is not discarded, it passes the last edited information from the message to the last edited tracker. - The last edited information from the last message received before the lastEditedTracker is loaded is stored and passed to the tracker once it loads.</td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

## Interfaces

<table class="table table-striped table-hover interface-list">
<caption>List of interfaces contained in this package</caption>
  <thead>
    <tr>
     <th scope="col">Interface</th>
 <th scope="col">Description</th>
    </tr>
  </thead>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td><a href='/docs/apis/last-edited/ifluidlasteditedtracker'>IFluidLastEditedTracker</a></td>
      <td></td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td><a href='/docs/apis/last-edited/ilasteditdetails'>ILastEditDetails</a></td>
      <td></td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td><a href='/docs/apis/last-edited/iprovidefluidlasteditedtracker'>IProvideFluidLastEditedTracker</a></td>
      <td></td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

## Variables

<table class="table table-striped table-hover variable-list">
<caption>List of variables contained in this package</caption>
  <thead>
    <tr>
     <th scope="col">Variable</th>
 <th scope="col">Description</th>
    </tr>
  </thead>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td><a href='/docs/apis/last-edited#ifluidlasteditedtracker-Variable'>IFluidLastEditedTracker</a></td>
      <td></td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

<hr><div id=package-details>

## Function Details {#functions-details}

### setupLastEditedTrackerForContainer {#setuplasteditedtrackerforcontainer-Function}

Helper function to set up a data object that provides IFluidLastEditedTracker to track last edited in a Container. It does the following: - Registers an "op" listener on the runtime. On each message, it calls the shouldDiscardMessageFn to check if the message should be discarded. It also discards all scheduler message. If a message is not discarded, it passes the last edited information from the message to the last edited tracker. - The last edited information from the last message received before the lastEditedTracker is loaded is stored and passed to the tracker once it loads.

<b>Signature:</b>

```typescript
export declare function setupLastEditedTrackerForContainer(lastEditedTracker: IFluidLastEditedTracker, runtime: IContainerRuntime, shouldDiscardMessageFn?: (message: ISequencedDocumentMessage) => boolean): void;
```

#### Parameters {#setuplasteditedtrackerforcontainer-Function-parameters}


<table class="table table-striped table-hover param-list">
<caption>List of parameters</caption>
  <thead>
    <tr>
     <th scope="col">Parameter</th>
 <th scope="col">Type</th>
 <th scope="col">Description</th>
    </tr>
  </thead>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td>lastEditedTracker</td>
      <td><a href='/docs/apis/last-edited/ifluidlasteditedtracker'>IFluidLastEditedTracker</a></td>
      <td>The last edited tracker.</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>runtime</td>
      <td><a href='/docs/apis/container-runtime-definitions/icontainerruntime'>IContainerRuntime</a></td>
      <td>The container runtime whose messages are to be tracked.</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>shouldDiscardMessageFn</td>
      <td>(message: <a href='/docs/apis/protocol-definitions/isequenceddocumentmessage'>ISequencedDocumentMessage</a>) => boolean</td>
      <td>Function that tells if a message should not be considered in computing last edited.</td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>


## Variable Details {#variables-details}

### IFluidLastEditedTracker {#ifluidlasteditedtracker-Variable}

<b>Signature:</b>

```typescript
IFluidLastEditedTracker: keyof IProvideFluidLastEditedTracker
```

</div>
