{"kind":"Package","title":"@fluid-internal/quorum Package","members":{"Interface":{"IQuorum":"/docs/apis/quorum/iquorum","IQuorumEvents":"/docs/apis/quorum/iquorumevents"},"Class":{"Quorum":"/docs/apis/quorum/quorum"}},"package":"@fluid-internal/quorum","unscopedPackageName":"quorum"}

[//]: # (Do not edit this file. It is automatically generated by API Documenter.)

[Packages](/docs/apis/) &gt; [@fluid-internal/quorum](/docs/apis/quorum)

## Classes

<table class="table table-striped table-hover class-list">
<caption>List of classes contained in this package</caption>
  <thead>
    <tr>
     <th scope="col">Class</th>
 <th scope="col">Description</th>
    </tr>
  </thead>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td><a href='/docs/apis/quorum/quorum'>Quorum</a></td>
      <td>The Quorum distributed data structure provides key/value storage with a cautious conflict resolution strategy. This strategy optimizes for all clients being aware of the change prior to considering the value as accepted.<!-- -->It is still experimental and under development. Please do try it out, but expect breaking changes in the future.</td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

## Interfaces

<table class="table table-striped table-hover interface-list">
<caption>List of interfaces contained in this package</caption>
  <thead>
    <tr>
     <th scope="col">Interface</th>
 <th scope="col">Description</th>
    </tr>
  </thead>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td><a href='/docs/apis/quorum/iquorum'>IQuorum</a></td>
      <td>An IQuorum is a key-value storage, in which setting a value requires all connected collaborators to observe and ack the set message. As a result, the value goes through two phases - "pending" state where the local client has seen the set, but not all connected clients have, and "accepted" where all connected clients have seen the set.</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td><a href='/docs/apis/quorum/iquorumevents'>IQuorumEvents</a></td>
      <td>IQuorumEvents are the events fired by an IQuorum.</td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

