{
  "title": "@fluidframework/view-adapters Package",
  "summary": "Views may be written using a variety of UI frameworks. The view adapters module provides helpful tools for composing these views, intended for use when either:\n\n1. The view being composed is from a different framework than its visual host.\n\n2. It is not known which framework was used in the view being composed.\n\nThe adapters translate between different view frameworks to satisfy \\#1, and are able to inspect a view to deduce its framework to satisfy \\#2.",
  "kind": "Package",
  "members": {
    "Class": {
      "HTMLViewAdapter": "/docs/apis/view-adapters\\htmlviewadapter-class",
      "MountableView": "/docs/apis/view-adapters\\mountableview-class",
      "ReactViewAdapter": "/docs/apis/view-adapters\\reactviewadapter-class"
    },
    "Interface": {
      "IReactViewAdapterProps": "/docs/apis/view-adapters\\ireactviewadapterprops-interface"
    }
  },
  "package": "@fluidframework/view-adapters",
  "unscopedPackageName": "view-adapters"
}

[//]: # (Do not edit this file. It is automatically generated by @fluidtools/api-markdown-documenter.)

[Packages](/docs/apis/) &gt; [@fluidframework/view-adapters](/docs/apis/view-adapters)

Views may be written using a variety of UI frameworks. The view adapters module provides helpful tools for composing these views, intended for use when either:

1. The view being composed is from a different framework than its visual host.

2. It is not known which framework was used in the view being composed.

The adapters translate between different view frameworks to satisfy \#1, and are able to inspect a view to deduce its framework to satisfy \#2.

## Interfaces

<table class="table table-striped table-hover">
  <thead>
    <tr>
      <th scope="col">
        Interface
      </th>
      <th scope="col">
        Alerts
      </th>
      <th scope="col">
        Description
      </th>
    </tr>
  </thead>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td>
        <a href='/docs/apis/view-adapters\ireactviewadapterprops-interface'>IReactViewAdapterProps</a>
      </td>
      <td>
        <code>DEPRECATED</code>
      </td>
      <td>
      </td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

## Classes

<table class="table table-striped table-hover">
  <thead>
    <tr>
      <th scope="col">
        Class
      </th>
      <th scope="col">
        Alerts
      </th>
      <th scope="col">
        Description
      </th>
    </tr>
  </thead>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td>
        <a href='/docs/apis/view-adapters\htmlviewadapter-class'>HTMLViewAdapter</a>
      </td>
      <td>
        <code>DEPRECATED</code>
      </td>
      <td>
        Abstracts rendering of views via the IFluidHTMLView interface. Supports React elements, as well as objects that implement IFluidHTMLView.
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>
        <a href='/docs/apis/view-adapters\mountableview-class'>MountableView</a>
      </td>
      <td>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>Abstracts mounting of views for usage outside of their bundle. Supports React elements, as well as objects that implement IFluidHTMLView.</p><p>The MountableView must be applied from within the same bundle that provides the view, and then that MountableView can be used by a separate bundle. Attempting to apply a MountableView to a view that was retrieved from a separate bundle is not supported.</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>
        <a href='/docs/apis/view-adapters\reactviewadapter-class'>ReactViewAdapter</a>
      </td>
      <td>
        <code>DEPRECATED</code>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>Abstracts rendering of views as a React component. Supports React elements, as well as views that implement IFluidHTMLView.</p><p>If the object is none of these, we render nothing.</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>