{"kind":"Interface","title":"IFluidModuleWithDetails Interface","summary":"","members":{"PropertySignature":{"details":"/docs/apis/container-loader/ifluidmodulewithdetails#details-PropertySignature","module":"/docs/apis/container-loader/ifluidmodulewithdetails#module-PropertySignature"}},"package":"@fluidframework/container-loader","unscopedPackageName":"container-loader"}

[//]: # (Do not edit this file. It is automatically generated by API Documenter.)

[Packages](/docs/apis/) &gt; [@fluidframework/container-loader](/docs/apis/container-loader) &gt; [IFluidModuleWithDetails](/docs/apis/container-loader/ifluidmodulewithdetails)

{{% callout warning Deprecated %}}
IFluidModuleWithDetails interface is moved to *@fluidframework/container-definition#IFluidModuleWithDetails* to have all the code loading modules in one package. \#8193 Encapsulates a module entry point with corresponding code details.

{{% /callout %}}

<b>Signature:</b>

```typescript
export interface IFluidModuleWithDetails 
```

## Properties

<table class="table table-striped table-hover property-list">
<caption>List of properties on this interface</caption>
  <thead>
    <tr>
     <th scope="col">Property</th>
 <th scope="col">Type</th>
 <th scope="col">Description</th>
    </tr>
  </thead>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td><a href='/docs/apis/container-loader/ifluidmodulewithdetails#details-PropertySignature'>details</a></td>
      <td>IFluidCodeDetails</td>
      <td>Code details associated with the module. Represents a document schema this module supports. If the code loader implements the *@fluidframework/core-interfaces#IFluidCodeDetailsComparer* interface, it'll be called to determine whether the module code details satisfy the new code proposal in the quorum.</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td><a href='/docs/apis/container-loader/ifluidmodulewithdetails#module-PropertySignature'>module</a></td>
      <td>IFluidModule</td>
      <td>Fluid code module that implements the runtime factory needed to instantiate the container runtime.</td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

<hr><div id=interface-details>

## Property Details {#properties-details}

### details {#details-PropertySignature}

Code details associated with the module. Represents a document schema this module supports. If the code loader implements the *@fluidframework/core-interfaces#IFluidCodeDetailsComparer* interface, it'll be called to determine whether the module code details satisfy the new code proposal in the quorum.

<b>Signature:</b>

```typescript
details: IFluidCodeDetails;
```

### module {#module-PropertySignature}

Fluid code module that implements the runtime factory needed to instantiate the container runtime.

<b>Signature:</b>

```typescript
module: IFluidModule;
```

</div>
