{"kind":"Interface","title":"ILoaderProps Interface","summary":"Services and properties necessary for creating a loader","members":{"PropertySignature":{"codeLoader":"/docs/apis/container-loader/iloaderprops#codeloader-PropertySignature","configProvider":"/docs/apis/container-loader/iloaderprops#configprovider-PropertySignature","detachedBlobStorage":"/docs/apis/container-loader/iloaderprops#detachedblobstorage-PropertySignature","documentServiceFactory":"/docs/apis/container-loader/iloaderprops#documentservicefactory-PropertySignature","logger":"/docs/apis/container-loader/iloaderprops#logger-PropertySignature","options":"/docs/apis/container-loader/iloaderprops#options-PropertySignature","protocolHandlerBuilder":"/docs/apis/container-loader/iloaderprops#protocolhandlerbuilder-PropertySignature","scope":"/docs/apis/container-loader/iloaderprops#scope-PropertySignature","urlResolver":"/docs/apis/container-loader/iloaderprops#urlresolver-PropertySignature"}},"package":"@fluidframework/container-loader","unscopedPackageName":"container-loader"}

[//]: # (Do not edit this file. It is automatically generated by API Documenter.)

[Packages](/docs/apis/) &gt; [@fluidframework/container-loader](/docs/apis/container-loader) &gt; [ILoaderProps](/docs/apis/container-loader/iloaderprops)

Services and properties necessary for creating a loader

<b>Signature:</b>

```typescript
export interface ILoaderProps 
```

## Properties

<table class="table table-striped table-hover property-list">
<caption>List of properties on this interface</caption>
  <thead>
    <tr>
     <th scope="col">Property</th>
 <th scope="col">Type</th>
 <th scope="col">Description</th>
    </tr>
  </thead>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td><a href='/docs/apis/container-loader/iloaderprops#codeloader-PropertySignature'>codeLoader</a></td>
      <td><a href='/docs/apis/container-loader/icodedetailsloader'>ICodeDetailsLoader</a></td>
      <td>The code loader handles loading the necessary code for running a container once it is loaded.</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td><a href='/docs/apis/container-loader/iloaderprops#configprovider-PropertySignature'>configProvider</a></td>
      <td><a href='/docs/apis/telemetry-utils/iconfigproviderbase'>IConfigProviderBase</a></td>
      <td>The configuration provider which may be used to control features.</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td><a href='/docs/apis/container-loader/iloaderprops#detachedblobstorage-PropertySignature'>detachedBlobStorage</a></td>
      <td><a href='/docs/apis/container-loader#idetachedblobstorage-TypeAlias'>IDetachedBlobStorage</a></td>
      <td>Blobs storage for detached containers.</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td><a href='/docs/apis/container-loader/iloaderprops#documentservicefactory-PropertySignature'>documentServiceFactory</a></td>
      <td><a href='/docs/apis/driver-definitions/idocumentservicefactory'>IDocumentServiceFactory</a></td>
      <td>The document service factory take the Fluid url provided by the resolved url and constructs all the necessary services for communication with the container's server.</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td><a href='/docs/apis/container-loader/iloaderprops#logger-PropertySignature'>logger</a></td>
      <td><a href='/docs/apis/common-definitions/itelemetrybaselogger'>ITelemetryBaseLogger</a></td>
      <td>The logger that all telemetry should be pushed to.</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td><a href='/docs/apis/container-loader/iloaderprops#options-PropertySignature'>options</a></td>
      <td><a href='/docs/apis/container-loader/iloaderoptions'>ILoaderOptions</a></td>
      <td>A property bag of options used by various layers to control features</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td><a href='/docs/apis/container-loader/iloaderprops#protocolhandlerbuilder-PropertySignature'>protocolHandlerBuilder</a></td>
      <td><a href='/docs/apis/container-loader#protocolhandlerbuilder-TypeAlias'>ProtocolHandlerBuilder</a></td>
      <td>Optional property for allowing the container to use a custom protocol implementation for handling the quorum and/or the audience.</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td><a href='/docs/apis/container-loader/iloaderprops#scope-PropertySignature'>scope</a></td>
      <td><a href='/docs/apis/core-interfaces#fluidobject-TypeAlias'>FluidObject</a></td>
      <td>Scope is provided to all container and is a set of shared services for container's to integrate with their host environment.</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td><a href='/docs/apis/container-loader/iloaderprops#urlresolver-PropertySignature'>urlResolver</a></td>
      <td><a href='/docs/apis/driver-definitions/iurlresolver'>IUrlResolver</a></td>
      <td>The url resolver used by the loader for resolving external urls into Fluid urls such that the container specified by the external url can be loaded.</td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

<hr><div id=interface-details>

## Property Details {#properties-details}

### codeLoader {#codeloader-PropertySignature}

The code loader handles loading the necessary code for running a container once it is loaded.

<b>Signature:</b>

```typescript
readonly codeLoader: ICodeDetailsLoader;
```

### configProvider {#configprovider-PropertySignature}

The configuration provider which may be used to control features.

<b>Signature:</b>

```typescript
readonly configProvider?: IConfigProviderBase;
```

### detachedBlobStorage {#detachedblobstorage-PropertySignature}

Blobs storage for detached containers.

<b>Signature:</b>

```typescript
readonly detachedBlobStorage?: IDetachedBlobStorage;
```

### documentServiceFactory {#documentservicefactory-PropertySignature}

The document service factory take the Fluid url provided by the resolved url and constructs all the necessary services for communication with the container's server.

<b>Signature:</b>

```typescript
readonly documentServiceFactory: IDocumentServiceFactory;
```

### logger {#logger-PropertySignature}

The logger that all telemetry should be pushed to.

<b>Signature:</b>

```typescript
readonly logger?: ITelemetryBaseLogger;
```

### options {#options-PropertySignature}

A property bag of options used by various layers to control features

<b>Signature:</b>

```typescript
readonly options?: ILoaderOptions;
```

### protocolHandlerBuilder {#protocolhandlerbuilder-PropertySignature}

Optional property for allowing the container to use a custom protocol implementation for handling the quorum and/or the audience.

<b>Signature:</b>

```typescript
readonly protocolHandlerBuilder?: ProtocolHandlerBuilder;
```

### scope {#scope-PropertySignature}

Scope is provided to all container and is a set of shared services for container's to integrate with their host environment.

<b>Signature:</b>

```typescript
readonly scope?: FluidObject;
```

### urlResolver {#urlresolver-PropertySignature}

The url resolver used by the loader for resolving external urls into Fluid urls such that the container specified by the external url can be loaded.

<b>Signature:</b>

```typescript
readonly urlResolver: IUrlResolver;
```

</div>
