{"kind":"Interface","title":"IRelativePosition Interface","summary":"A position specified relative to a segment.","members":{"PropertySignature":{"before":"/docs/apis/merge-tree/irelativeposition#before-PropertySignature","id":"/docs/apis/merge-tree/irelativeposition#id-PropertySignature","offset":"/docs/apis/merge-tree/irelativeposition#offset-PropertySignature"}},"package":"@fluidframework/merge-tree","unscopedPackageName":"merge-tree"}

[//]: # (Do not edit this file. It is automatically generated by API Documenter.)

[Packages](/docs/apis/) &gt; [@fluidframework/merge-tree](/docs/apis/merge-tree) &gt; [IRelativePosition](/docs/apis/merge-tree/irelativeposition)

A position specified relative to a segment.

<b>Signature:</b>

```typescript
export interface IRelativePosition 
```

## Properties

<table class="table table-striped table-hover property-list">
<caption>List of properties on this interface</caption>
  <thead>
    <tr>
     <th scope="col">Property</th>
 <th scope="col">Type</th>
 <th scope="col">Description</th>
    </tr>
  </thead>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td><a href='/docs/apis/merge-tree/irelativeposition#before-PropertySignature'>before</a></td>
      <td>boolean</td>
      <td>If true, insert before the specified segment. If false or not defined, insert after the specified segment.</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td><a href='/docs/apis/merge-tree/irelativeposition#id-PropertySignature'>id</a></td>
      <td>string</td>
      <td>String identifier specifying a segment.</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td><a href='/docs/apis/merge-tree/irelativeposition#offset-PropertySignature'>offset</a></td>
      <td>number</td>
      <td>A positive number >= 1. If before is false, offset is added to the position. If before is true, offset is subtracted from the position.</td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

<hr><div id=interface-details>

## Property Details {#properties-details}

### before {#before-PropertySignature}

If true, insert before the specified segment. If false or not defined, insert after the specified segment.

<b>Signature:</b>

```typescript
before?: boolean;
```

### id {#id-PropertySignature}

String identifier specifying a segment.

<b>Signature:</b>

```typescript
id?: string;
```

### offset {#offset-PropertySignature}

A positive number &gt;<!-- -->= 1. If before is false, offset is added to the position. If before is true, offset is subtracted from the position.

<b>Signature:</b>

```typescript
offset?: number;
```

</div>
