{
  "title": "@fluid-experimental/devtools-core Package",
  "summary": "Contains an API for initializing developer tooling alongside the Fluid Framework.\n\nThis tooling is built for use alongside our Chromium browser extension. It listens for incoming messages from the corresponding extension, and posts direct responses as well as automatic updates for Fluid state changes.\n\nIndividual _Fluid Containers_ can be registered to generate Container-level stats.\n\nVisualization of telemetry logs can be enabled by creating a [DevtoolsLogger](/docs/apis/devtools-core/devtoolslogger-class) and providing it to Devtools initialization.\n\nSee the package README for more details.",
  "kind": "Package",
  "members": {
    "Interface": {
      "ContainerDevtoolsProps": "/docs/apis/devtools-core/containerdevtoolsprops-interface",
      "FluidDevtoolsProps": "/docs/apis/devtools-core/fluiddevtoolsprops-interface",
      "HasContainerKey": "/docs/apis/devtools-core/hascontainerkey-interface",
      "IFluidDevtools": "/docs/apis/devtools-core/ifluiddevtools-interface"
    },
    "TypeAlias": {
      "ContainerKey": "/docs/apis/devtools-core#containerkey-typealias"
    },
    "Class": {
      "DevtoolsLogger": "/docs/apis/devtools-core/devtoolslogger-class"
    },
    "Function": {
      "initializeDevtools": "/docs/apis/devtools-core#initializedevtools-function"
    }
  },
  "package": "@fluid-experimental/devtools-core",
  "unscopedPackageName": "devtools-core"
}

[//]: # (Do not edit this file. It is automatically generated by @fluidtools/api-markdown-documenter.)

[Packages](/docs/apis/) &gt; [@fluid-experimental/devtools-core](/docs/apis/devtools-core)

Contains an API for initializing developer tooling alongside the Fluid Framework.

This tooling is built for use alongside our Chromium browser extension. It listens for incoming messages from the corresponding extension, and posts direct responses as well as automatic updates for Fluid state changes.

Individual _Fluid Containers_ can be registered to generate Container-level stats.

Visualization of telemetry logs can be enabled by creating a [DevtoolsLogger](/docs/apis/devtools-core/devtoolslogger-class) and providing it to Devtools initialization.

See the package README for more details.

## Interfaces

<table class="table table-striped table-hover">
  <thead>
    <tr>
      <th>
        Interface
      </th>
      <th>
        Description
      </th>
    </tr>
  </thead>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td>
        <a href='/docs/apis/devtools-core/containerdevtoolsprops-interface'>ContainerDevtoolsProps</a>
      </td>
      <td>
        Properties for registering a <span><i>@fluidframework/container-definitions#IContainer</i></span> with the Devtools.
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>
        <a href='/docs/apis/devtools-core/fluiddevtoolsprops-interface'>FluidDevtoolsProps</a>
      </td>
      <td>
        Properties for configuring the Devtools.
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>
        <a href='/docs/apis/devtools-core/hascontainerkey-interface'>HasContainerKey</a>
      </td>
      <td>
        Common interface for data associated with a particular Container registered with the Devtools.
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>
        <a href='/docs/apis/devtools-core/ifluiddevtools-interface'>IFluidDevtools</a>
      </td>
      <td>
        Fluid Devtools. A single, global instance is used to generate and communicate stats associated with the general Fluid runtime (i.e., it is not associated with any single Framework entity).
      </td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

## Classes

<table class="table table-striped table-hover">
  <thead>
    <tr>
      <th>
        Class
      </th>
      <th>
        Modifiers
      </th>
      <th>
        Description
      </th>
    </tr>
  </thead>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td>
        <a href='/docs/apis/devtools-core/devtoolslogger-class'>DevtoolsLogger</a>
      </td>
      <td>
        <code>sealed</code>
      </td>
      <td>
        Logger implementation that posts all telemetry events to the window (globalThis object). This logger is intended to integrate with the Fluid DevTools browser extension.
      </td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

## Types

<table class="table table-striped table-hover">
  <thead>
    <tr>
      <th>
        TypeAlias
      </th>
      <th>
        Description
      </th>
    </tr>
  </thead>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td>
        <a href='/docs/apis/devtools-core#containerkey-typealias'>ContainerKey</a>
      </td>
      <td>
        A key used to identify and differentiate Containers registered with the <a href='/docs/apis/devtools-core/ifluiddevtools-interface'>IFluidDevtools</a>.
      </td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

## Functions

<table class="table table-striped table-hover">
  <thead>
    <tr>
      <th>
        Function
      </th>
      <th>
        Return Type
      </th>
      <th>
        Description
      </th>
    </tr>
  </thead>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td>
        <a href='/docs/apis/devtools-core#initializedevtools-function'>initializeDevtools</a>
      </td>
      <td>
        <span><a href='/docs/apis/devtools-core/ifluiddevtools-interface'>IFluidDevtools</a></span>
      </td>
      <td>
        Initializes the Devtools singleton and returns a handle to it.
      </td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

## Type Details

### ContainerKey {#containerkey-typealias}

A key used to identify and differentiate Containers registered with the [IFluidDevtools](/docs/apis/devtools-core/ifluiddevtools-interface).

#### Signature {#containerkey-signature}

```typescript
export declare type ContainerKey = string;
```

#### Remarks {#containerkey-remarks}

Each Container registered with the Devtools must be assigned a unique `containerKey`.

#### Example {#containerkey-example}

"Canvas Container"

## Function Details

### initializeDevtools {#initializedevtools-function}

Initializes the Devtools singleton and returns a handle to it.

#### Signature {#initializedevtools-signature}

```typescript
export declare function initializeDevtools(props?: FluidDevtoolsProps): IFluidDevtools;
```

#### Remarks {#initializedevtools-remarks}

The instance is tracked as a static singleton.

It is automatically disposed on webpage unload, but it can be closed earlier by calling `dispose` on the returned handle.

#### Parameters {#initializedevtools-parameters}

<table class="table table-striped table-hover">
  <thead>
    <tr>
      <th>
        Parameter
      </th>
      <th>
        Modifiers
      </th>
      <th>
        Type
      </th>
      <th>
        Description
      </th>
    </tr>
  </thead>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td>
        props
      </td>
      <td>
        optional
      </td>
      <td>
        <span><a href='/docs/apis/devtools-core/fluiddevtoolsprops-interface'>FluidDevtoolsProps</a></span>
      </td>
      <td>
      </td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

#### Returns {#initializedevtools-returns}

**Return type:** [IFluidDevtools](/docs/apis/devtools-core/ifluiddevtools-interface)
