{
  "title": "@fluid-experimental/pact-map Package",
  "kind": "Package",
  "members": {
    "Interface": {
      "IAcceptedPact": "/docs/apis/pact-map/iacceptedpact-interface",
      "IPactMap": "/docs/apis/pact-map/ipactmap-interface",
      "IPactMapEvents": "/docs/apis/pact-map/ipactmapevents-interface"
    },
    "Class": {
      "PactMap": "/docs/apis/pact-map/pactmap-class"
    }
  },
  "package": "@fluid-experimental/pact-map",
  "unscopedPackageName": "pact-map"
}

[//]: # (Do not edit this file. It is automatically generated by @fluidtools/api-markdown-documenter.)

[Packages](/docs/apis/) &gt; [@fluid-experimental/pact-map](/docs/apis/pact-map)

## Interfaces

<table class="table table-striped table-hover">
  <thead>
    <tr>
      <th>
        Interface
      </th>
      <th>
        Description
      </th>
    </tr>
  </thead>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td>
        <a href='/docs/apis/pact-map/iacceptedpact-interface'>IAcceptedPact</a>
      </td>
      <td>
        Details of the accepted pact.
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>
        <a href='/docs/apis/pact-map/ipactmap-interface'>IPactMap</a>
      </td>
      <td>
        An IPactMap is a key-value storage, in which setting a value is done via a proposal system. All collaborators who were connected at the time of the proposal must accept the change before it is considered accepted (or, if those clients disconnect they are considered to have implicitly accepted). As a result, the value goes through two phases: 1. &quot;pending&quot; state where the proposal has been sequenced, but there are still outstanding acceptances 2. &quot;accepted&quot; state where all clients who were connected at the time the proposal was made have either accepted or disconnected.
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>
        <a href='/docs/apis/pact-map/ipactmapevents-interface'>IPactMapEvents</a>
      </td>
      <td>
        IPactMapEvents are the events fired by an IPactMap.
      </td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

## Classes

<table class="table table-striped table-hover">
  <thead>
    <tr>
      <th>
        Class
      </th>
      <th>
        Description
      </th>
    </tr>
  </thead>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td>
        <a href='/docs/apis/pact-map/pactmap-class'>PactMap</a>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>
          The PactMap distributed data structure provides key/value storage with a cautious conflict resolution strategy. This strategy optimizes for all clients being aware of the change prior to considering the value as accepted.
        </p>
        <p>
          It is still experimental and under development. Please do try it out, but expect breaking changes in the future.
        </p>
      </td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>
