{
  "title": "@fluidframework/request-handler Package",
  "kind": "Package",
  "members": {
    "TypeAlias": {
      "RuntimeRequestHandler": "/docs/apis/request-handler#runtimerequesthandler-typealias"
    }
  },
  "package": "@fluidframework/request-handler",
  "unscopedPackageName": "request-handler"
}

[//]: # (Do not edit this file. It is automatically generated by @fluidtools/api-markdown-documenter.)

## Types

<table class="table table-striped table-hover">
  <thead>
    <tr>
      <th>
        TypeAlias
      </th>
      <th>
        Alerts
      </th>
      <th>
        Description
      </th>
    </tr>
  </thead>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td>
        <a href='/docs/apis/request-handler#runtimerequesthandler-typealias'>RuntimeRequestHandler</a>
      </td>
      <td>
        <code>ALPHA</code>, <code>DEPRECATED</code>
      </td>
      <td>
        A request handler for the container runtime. Each handler should handle a specific request, and return undefined if it does not apply. These handlers are called in series, so there may be other handlers before or after. A handler should only return error if the request is for a route the handler owns, and there is a problem with the route, or fulling the specific request.
      </td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

## Type Details

### RuntimeRequestHandler (ALPHA) {#runtimerequesthandler-typealias}

A request handler for the container runtime. Each handler should handle a specific request, and return undefined if it does not apply. These handlers are called in series, so there may be other handlers before or after. A handler should only return error if the request is for a route the handler owns, and there is a problem with the route, or fulling the specific request.

{{% callout warning This API is deprecated and will be removed in a future release. %}}
Will be removed once Loader LTS version is "2.0.0-internal.7.0.0". Migrate all usage of IFluidRouter to the "entryPoint" pattern. Refer to Removing-IFluidRouter.md

{{% /callout %}}

WARNING: This API is provided as an alpha preview and may change without notice. Use at your own risk.

#### Signature {#runtimerequesthandler-signature}

```typescript
export type RuntimeRequestHandler = (request: RequestParser, runtime: IContainerRuntime) => Promise<IResponse | undefined>;
```
