{
  "title": "@fluidframework/sequence Package",
  "summary": "Supports distributed data structures which are list-like.\n\nThis library's main export is [SharedString](/docs/apis/sequence/sharedstring-class), a DDS for storing and simultaneously editing a sequence of text.\n\nSee the package's README for a high-level introduction to `SharedString`'s feature set.",
  "kind": "Package",
  "members": {
    "TypeAlias": {
      "DeserializeCallback": "/docs/apis/sequence#deserializecallback-typealias",
      "IntervalStickiness": "/docs/apis/sequence#intervalstickiness-typealias",
      "SequencePlace": "/docs/apis/sequence#sequenceplace-typealias",
      "SharedStringSegment": "/docs/apis/sequence#sharedstringsegment-typealias"
    },
    "Interface": {
      "IInterval": "/docs/apis/sequence/iinterval-interface",
      "IIntervalCollection": "/docs/apis/sequence/iintervalcollection-interface",
      "IIntervalCollectionEvent": "/docs/apis/sequence/iintervalcollectionevent-interface",
      "InteriorSequencePlace": "/docs/apis/sequence/interiorsequenceplace-interface",
      "IntervalIndex": "/docs/apis/sequence/intervalindex-interface",
      "ISequenceDeltaRange": "/docs/apis/sequence/isequencedeltarange-interface",
      "ISerializableInterval": "/docs/apis/sequence/iserializableinterval-interface",
      "ISerializedInterval": "/docs/apis/sequence/iserializedinterval-interface",
      "ISharedIntervalCollection": "/docs/apis/sequence/isharedintervalcollection-interface",
      "ISharedSegmentSequenceEvents": "/docs/apis/sequence/isharedsegmentsequenceevents-interface",
      "ISharedString": "/docs/apis/sequence/isharedstring-interface"
    },
    "Variable": {
      "IntervalStickiness": "/docs/apis/sequence#intervalstickiness-variable"
    },
    "Enum": {
      "IntervalType": "/docs/apis/sequence/intervaltype-enum",
      "Side": "/docs/apis/sequence/side-enum"
    },
    "Class": {
      "SequenceDeltaEvent": "/docs/apis/sequence/sequencedeltaevent-class",
      "SequenceEvent": "/docs/apis/sequence/sequenceevent-class",
      "SequenceInterval": "/docs/apis/sequence/sequenceinterval-class",
      "SequenceMaintenanceEvent": "/docs/apis/sequence/sequencemaintenanceevent-class",
      "SharedSegmentSequence": "/docs/apis/sequence/sharedsegmentsequence-class",
      "SharedString": "/docs/apis/sequence/sharedstring-class",
      "SharedStringFactory": "/docs/apis/sequence/sharedstringfactory-class"
    }
  },
  "package": "@fluidframework/sequence",
  "unscopedPackageName": "sequence"
}

[//]: # (Do not edit this file. It is automatically generated by @fluidtools/api-markdown-documenter.)

Supports distributed data structures which are list-like.

This library's main export is [SharedString](/docs/apis/sequence/sharedstring-class), a DDS for storing and simultaneously editing a sequence of text.

See the package's README for a high-level introduction to `SharedString`'s feature set.

## Remarks {#_fluidframework_sequence-remarks}

Note that SharedString is a sequence DDS but it has additional specialized features and behaviors for working with text.

## Interfaces

<table class="table table-striped table-hover">
  <thead>
    <tr>
      <th>
        Interface
      </th>
      <th>
        Alerts
      </th>
      <th>
        Description
      </th>
    </tr>
  </thead>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td>
        <a href='/docs/apis/sequence/iinterval-interface'>IInterval</a>
      </td>
      <td>
        <code>ALPHA</code>
      </td>
      <td>
        Basic interval abstraction
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>
        <a href='/docs/apis/sequence/iintervalcollection-interface'>IIntervalCollection</a>
      </td>
      <td>
        <code>ALPHA</code>
      </td>
      <td>
        Collection of intervals that supports addition, modification, removal, and efficient spatial querying. Changes to this collection will be incur updates on collaborating clients (i.e. they are not local-only).
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>
        <a href='/docs/apis/sequence/iintervalcollectionevent-interface'>IIntervalCollectionEvent</a>
      </td>
      <td>
        <code>ALPHA</code>
      </td>
      <td>
        Change events emitted by <code>IntervalCollection</code>s
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>
        <a href='/docs/apis/sequence/interiorsequenceplace-interface'>InteriorSequencePlace</a>
      </td>
      <td>
        <code>ALPHA</code>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>
          A sequence place that does not refer to the special endpoint segments.
        </p>
        <p>
          See <a href='/docs/apis/sequence#sequenceplace-typealias'>SequencePlace</a> for additional context.
        </p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>
        <a href='/docs/apis/sequence/intervalindex-interface'>IntervalIndex</a>
      </td>
      <td>
        <code>ALPHA</code>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>
          Collection of intervals.
        </p>
        <p>
          Implementers of this interface will typically implement additional APIs to support efficiently querying a collection of intervals in some manner, for example: - &quot;find all intervals with start endpoint between these two points&quot; - &quot;find all intervals which overlap this range&quot; etc.
        </p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>
        <a href='/docs/apis/sequence/isequencedeltarange-interface'>ISequenceDeltaRange</a>
      </td>
      <td>
        <code>ALPHA</code>
      </td>
      <td>
        A range that has changed corresponding to a segment modification.
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>
        <a href='/docs/apis/sequence/iserializableinterval-interface'>ISerializableInterval</a>
      </td>
      <td>
        <code>ALPHA</code>
      </td>
      <td>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>
        <a href='/docs/apis/sequence/iserializedinterval-interface'>ISerializedInterval</a>
      </td>
      <td>
        <code>ALPHA</code>
      </td>
      <td>
        Serialized object representation of an interval. This representation is used for ops that create or change intervals.
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>
        <a href='/docs/apis/sequence/isharedintervalcollection-interface'>ISharedIntervalCollection</a>
      </td>
      <td>
        <code>ALPHA</code>
      </td>
      <td>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>
        <a href='/docs/apis/sequence/isharedsegmentsequenceevents-interface'>ISharedSegmentSequenceEvents</a>
      </td>
      <td>
        <code>ALPHA</code>
      </td>
      <td>
        Events emitted in response to changes to the sequence data.
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>
        <a href='/docs/apis/sequence/isharedstring-interface'>ISharedString</a>
      </td>
      <td>
        <code>ALPHA</code>
      </td>
      <td>
        Fluid object interface describing access methods on a SharedString
      </td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

## Classes

<table class="table table-striped table-hover">
  <thead>
    <tr>
      <th>
        Class
      </th>
      <th>
        Alerts
      </th>
      <th>
        Description
      </th>
    </tr>
  </thead>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td>
        <a href='/docs/apis/sequence/sequencedeltaevent-class'>SequenceDeltaEvent</a>
      </td>
      <td>
        <code>ALPHA</code>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>
          The event object returned on sequenceDelta events.
        </p>
        <p>
          The properties of this object and its sub-objects represent the state of the sequence at the point in time at which the operation was applied. They will not take into consideration any future modifications performed to the underlying sequence and merge tree.
        </p>
        <p>
          For group ops, each op will get its own event, and the group op property will be set on the op args.
        </p>
        <p>
          Ops may get multiple events. For instance, an insert-replace will get a remove then an insert event.
        </p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>
        <a href='/docs/apis/sequence/sequenceevent-class'>SequenceEvent</a>
      </td>
      <td>
        <code>ALPHA</code>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>
          Base class for SequenceDeltaEvent and SequenceMaintenanceEvent.
        </p>
        <p>
          The properties of this object and its sub-objects represent the state of the sequence at the point in time at which the operation was applied. They will not take into any future modifications performed to the underlying sequence and merge tree.
        </p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>
        <a href='/docs/apis/sequence/sequenceinterval-class'>SequenceInterval</a>
      </td>
      <td>
        <code>ALPHA</code>
      </td>
      <td>
        Interval implementation whose ends are associated with positions in a mutatable sequence. As such, when content is inserted into the middle of the interval, the interval expands to include that content.
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>
        <a href='/docs/apis/sequence/sequencemaintenanceevent-class'>SequenceMaintenanceEvent</a>
      </td>
      <td>
        <code>ALPHA</code>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>
          The event object returned on maintenance events.
        </p>
        <p>
          The properties of this object and its sub-objects represent the state of the sequence at the point in time at which the operation was applied. They will not take into consideration any future modifications performed to the underlying sequence and merge tree.
        </p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>
        <a href='/docs/apis/sequence/sharedsegmentsequence-class'>SharedSegmentSequence</a>
      </td>
      <td>
        <code>ALPHA</code>
      </td>
      <td>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>
        <a href='/docs/apis/sequence/sharedstring-class'>SharedString</a>
      </td>
      <td>
        <code>ALPHA</code>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>
          The Shared String is a specialized data structure for handling collaborative text. It is based on a more general Sequence data structure but has additional features that make working with text easier.
        </p>
        <p>
          In addition to text, a Shared String can also contain markers. Markers can be used to store metadata at positions within the text, like the details of an image or Fluid object that should be rendered with the text.
        </p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>
        <a href='/docs/apis/sequence/sharedstringfactory-class'>SharedStringFactory</a>
      </td>
      <td>
        <code>ALPHA</code>
      </td>
      <td>
      </td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

## Enumerations

<table class="table table-striped table-hover">
  <thead>
    <tr>
      <th>
        Enum
      </th>
      <th>
        Alerts
      </th>
      <th>
        Description
      </th>
    </tr>
  </thead>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td>
        <a href='/docs/apis/sequence/intervaltype-enum'>IntervalType</a>
      </td>
      <td>
        <code>ALPHA</code>
      </td>
      <td>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>
        <a href='/docs/apis/sequence/side-enum'>Side</a>
      </td>
      <td>
        <code>ALPHA</code>
      </td>
      <td>
        Defines a side relative to a character in a sequence.
      </td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

## Types

<table class="table table-striped table-hover">
  <thead>
    <tr>
      <th>
        TypeAlias
      </th>
      <th>
        Alerts
      </th>
      <th>
        Description
      </th>
    </tr>
  </thead>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td>
        <a href='/docs/apis/sequence#deserializecallback-typealias'>DeserializeCallback</a>
      </td>
      <td>
        <code>ALPHA</code>
      </td>
      <td>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>
        <a href='/docs/apis/sequence#intervalstickiness-typealias'>IntervalStickiness</a>
      </td>
      <td>
        <code>ALPHA</code>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>
          Determines how an interval should expand when segments are inserted adjacent to the range it spans
        </p>
        <p>
          Note that interval stickiness is currently an experimental feature and must be explicitly enabled with the <code>intervalStickinessEnabled</code> flag
        </p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>
        <a href='/docs/apis/sequence#sequenceplace-typealias'>SequencePlace</a>
      </td>
      <td>
        <code>ALPHA</code>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>
          Defines a position and side relative to a character in a sequence.
        </p>
        <p>
          For this purpose, sequences look like:
        </p>
        <p>
          <code>{start} - {character 0} - {character 1} - ... - {character N} - {end}</code>
        </p>
        <p>
          Each <code>{value}</code> in the diagram is a character within a sequence. Each <code>-</code> in the above diagram is a position where text could be inserted. Each position between a <code>{value}</code> and a <code>-</code> is a <code>SequencePlace</code>.
        </p>
        <p>
          The special endpoints <code>{start}</code> and <code>{end}</code> refer to positions outside the contents of the string.
        </p>
        <p>
          This gives us 2N + 2 possible positions to refer to within a string, where N is the number of characters.
        </p>
        <p>
          If the position is specified with a bare number, the side defaults to <code>Side.Before</code>.
        </p>
        <p>
          If a SequencePlace is the endpoint of a range (e.g. start/end of an interval or search range), the Side value means it is exclusive if it is nearer to the other position and inclusive if it is farther. E.g. the start of a range with Side.After is exclusive of the character at the position.
        </p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>
        <a href='/docs/apis/sequence#sharedstringsegment-typealias'>SharedStringSegment</a>
      </td>
      <td>
        <code>ALPHA</code>
      </td>
      <td>
      </td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

## Variables

<table class="table table-striped table-hover">
  <thead>
    <tr>
      <th>
        Variable
      </th>
      <th>
        Alerts
      </th>
      <th>
        Modifiers
      </th>
      <th>
        Description
      </th>
    </tr>
  </thead>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td>
        <a href='/docs/apis/sequence#intervalstickiness-variable'>IntervalStickiness</a>
      </td>
      <td>
        <code>ALPHA</code>
      </td>
      <td>
        <code>readonly</code>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>
          Determines how an interval should expand when segments are inserted adjacent to the range it spans
        </p>
        <p>
          Note that interval stickiness is currently an experimental feature and must be explicitly enabled with the <code>intervalStickinessEnabled</code> flag
        </p>
      </td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

## Type Details

### DeserializeCallback (ALPHA) {#deserializecallback-typealias}

WARNING: This API is provided as an alpha preview and may change without notice. Use at your own risk.

#### Signature {#deserializecallback-signature}

```typescript
export type DeserializeCallback = (properties: PropertySet) => void;
```

### IntervalStickiness (ALPHA) {#intervalstickiness-typealias}

Determines how an interval should expand when segments are inserted adjacent to the range it spans

Note that interval stickiness is currently an experimental feature and must be explicitly enabled with the `intervalStickinessEnabled` flag

WARNING: This API is provided as an alpha preview and may change without notice. Use at your own risk.

#### Signature {#intervalstickiness-signature}

```typescript
export type IntervalStickiness = (typeof IntervalStickiness)[keyof typeof IntervalStickiness];
```

### SequencePlace (ALPHA) {#sequenceplace-typealias}

Defines a position and side relative to a character in a sequence.

For this purpose, sequences look like:

`{start} - {character 0} - {character 1} - ... - {character N} - {end}`

Each `{value}` in the diagram is a character within a sequence. Each `-` in the above diagram is a position where text could be inserted. Each position between a `{value}` and a `-` is a `SequencePlace`.

The special endpoints `{start}` and `{end}` refer to positions outside the contents of the string.

This gives us 2N + 2 possible positions to refer to within a string, where N is the number of characters.

If the position is specified with a bare number, the side defaults to `Side.Before`.

If a SequencePlace is the endpoint of a range (e.g. start/end of an interval or search range), the Side value means it is exclusive if it is nearer to the other position and inclusive if it is farther. E.g. the start of a range with Side.After is exclusive of the character at the position.

WARNING: This API is provided as an alpha preview and may change without notice. Use at your own risk.

#### Signature {#sequenceplace-signature}

```typescript
export type SequencePlace = number | "start" | "end" | InteriorSequencePlace;
```

### SharedStringSegment (ALPHA) {#sharedstringsegment-typealias}

WARNING: This API is provided as an alpha preview and may change without notice. Use at your own risk.

#### Signature {#sharedstringsegment-signature}

```typescript
export type SharedStringSegment = TextSegment | Marker;
```

## Variable Details

### IntervalStickiness (ALPHA) {#intervalstickiness-variable}

Determines how an interval should expand when segments are inserted adjacent to the range it spans

Note that interval stickiness is currently an experimental feature and must be explicitly enabled with the `intervalStickinessEnabled` flag

WARNING: This API is provided as an alpha preview and may change without notice. Use at your own risk.

#### Signature {#intervalstickiness-signature}

```typescript
IntervalStickiness: {
    readonly NONE: 0;
    readonly START: 1;
    readonly END: 2;
    readonly FULL: 3;
}
```
