{
  "title": "@fluidframework/shared-summary-block Package",
  "kind": "Package",
  "members": {
    "Interface": {
      "ISharedSummaryBlock": "/docs/apis/shared-summary-block/isharedsummaryblock-interface"
    },
    "Class": {
      "SharedSummaryBlock": "/docs/apis/shared-summary-block/sharedsummaryblock-class",
      "SharedSummaryBlockFactory": "/docs/apis/shared-summary-block/sharedsummaryblockfactory-class"
    }
  },
  "package": "@fluidframework/shared-summary-block",
  "unscopedPackageName": "shared-summary-block"
}

[//]: # (Do not edit this file. It is automatically generated by @fluidtools/api-markdown-documenter.)

[Packages](/docs/apis/) &gt; [@fluidframework/shared-summary-block](/docs/apis/shared-summary-block)

## Interfaces

<table class="table table-striped table-hover">
  <thead>
    <tr>
      <th>
        Interface
      </th>
      <th>
        Description
      </th>
    </tr>
  </thead>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td>
        <a href='/docs/apis/shared-summary-block/isharedsummaryblock-interface'>ISharedSummaryBlock</a>
      </td>
      <td>
        Shared summary block interface. A shared summary block is part of the summary but it does not generate any ops. The set on this interface must only be called in response to a remote op. Basically, if we replay same ops, the set of calls on this interface to set data should be the same. This is critical because the object does not generate ops of its own, but relies on the above principle to maintain eventual consistency and to summarize.
      </td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

## Classes

<table class="table table-striped table-hover">
  <thead>
    <tr>
      <th>
        Class
      </th>
      <th>
        Modifiers
      </th>
      <th>
        Description
      </th>
    </tr>
  </thead>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td>
        <a href='/docs/apis/shared-summary-block/sharedsummaryblock-class'>SharedSummaryBlock</a>
      </td>
      <td>
      </td>
      <td>
        Implementation of a shared summary block. It does not generate any ops. It is only part of the summary. Data should be set in this object in response to a remote op.
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>
        <a href='/docs/apis/shared-summary-block/sharedsummaryblockfactory-class'>SharedSummaryBlockFactory</a>
      </td>
      <td>
        <code>sealed</code>
      </td>
      <td>
        The factory that defines the shared summary block.
      </td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>
