{
  "title": "HasReattachFields Interface",
  "kind": "Interface",
  "members": {
    "PropertySignature": {
      "detachedBy": "/docs/apis/tree/sequencefield/hasreattachfields-interface#detachedby-propertysignature",
      "detachIndex": "/docs/apis/tree/sequencefield/hasreattachfields-interface#detachindex-propertysignature"
    }
  },
  "package": "@fluid-internal/tree",
  "unscopedPackageName": "tree"
}

[//]: # (Do not edit this file. It is automatically generated by @fluidtools/api-markdown-documenter.)

[Packages](/docs/apis/) &gt; [@fluid-internal/tree](/docs/apis/tree) &gt; [SequenceField](/docs/apis/tree/sequencefield-namespace) &gt; [HasReattachFields](/docs/apis/tree/sequencefield/hasreattachfields-interface)

## Signature {#hasreattachfields-signature}

```typescript
export interface HasReattachFields extends HasPlaceFields 
```
<b>Extends:</b> HasPlaceFields

## Properties

<table class="table table-striped table-hover">
  <thead>
    <tr>
      <th scope="col">
        Property
      </th>
      <th scope="col">
        Type
      </th>
      <th scope="col">
        Description
      </th>
    </tr>
  </thead>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td>
        <a href='/docs/apis/tree/sequencefield/hasreattachfields-interface#detachedby-propertysignature'>detachedBy</a>
      </td>
      <td>
        <a href='/docs/apis/tree#revisiontag-typealias'>RevisionTag</a> | undefined
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>The tag of the change that detached the data being reattached.</p><p>Undefined when the reattach is the product of a tag-less change being inverted. It is invalid to try convert such a reattach mark to a delta.</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>
        <a href='/docs/apis/tree/sequencefield/hasreattachfields-interface#detachindex-propertysignature'>detachIndex</a>
      </td>
      <td>
        number
      </td>
      <td>
        The original field index of the detached node(s). "Original" here means before the change that detached them was applied.
      </td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

## Property Details

### detachedBy {#detachedby-propertysignature}

The tag of the change that detached the data being reattached.

Undefined when the reattach is the product of a tag-less change being inverted. It is invalid to try convert such a reattach mark to a delta.

#### Signature {#detachedby-signature}

```typescript
detachedBy: RevisionTag | undefined;
```

### detachIndex {#detachindex-propertysignature}

The original field index of the detached node(s). "Original" here means before the change that detached them was applied.

#### Signature {#detachindex-signature}

```typescript
detachIndex: number;
```