{
"title": "LineageEvent Interface",
"summary": "Represents a position within a contiguous range of nodes detached by a single changeset. Note that `LineageEvent`<!-- -->s with the same revision are not necessarily referring to the same detach. `LineageEvent`<!-- -->s for a given revision can only be meaningfully compared if it is known that they must refer to the same detach.",
"kind": "Interface",
"members": {
"PropertySignature": {
"offset": "/docs/apis/tree/sequencefield/lineageevent-interface#offset-propertysignature",
"revision": "/docs/apis/tree/sequencefield/lineageevent-interface#revision-propertysignature"
}
},
"package": "@fluid-internal/tree",
"unscopedPackageName": "tree"
}

[//]: # "Do not edit this file. It is automatically generated by @fluidtools/api-markdown-documenter."

[Packages](/docs/apis/) &gt; [@fluid-internal/tree](/docs/apis/tree) &gt; [SequenceField](/docs/apis/tree/sequencefield-namespace) &gt; [LineageEvent](/docs/apis/tree/sequencefield/lineageevent-interface)

Represents a position within a contiguous range of nodes detached by a single changeset. Note that `LineageEvent`<!-- -->s with the same revision are not necessarily referring to the same detach. `LineageEvent`<!-- -->s for a given revision can only be meaningfully compared if it is known that they must refer to the same detach.

## Signature {#lineageevent-signature}

```typescript
export interface LineageEvent
```

## Properties

<table class="table table-striped table-hover">
  <thead>
    <tr>
      <th scope="col">
        Property
      </th>
      <th scope="col">
        Type
      </th>
      <th scope="col">
        Description
      </th>
    </tr>
  </thead>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td>
        <a href='/docs/apis/tree/sequencefield/lineageevent-interface#offset-propertysignature'>offset</a>
      </td>
      <td>
        number
      </td>
      <td>
        The position of this mark within a range of nodes which were detached in this revision.
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>
        <a href='/docs/apis/tree/sequencefield/lineageevent-interface#revision-propertysignature'>revision</a>
      </td>
      <td>
        <a href='/docs/apis/tree#revisiontag-typealias'>RevisionTag</a>
      </td>
      <td>
      </td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

## Property Details

### offset {#offset-propertysignature}

The position of this mark within a range of nodes which were detached in this revision.

#### Signature {#offset-signature}

```typescript
readonly offset: number;
```

### revision {#revision-propertysignature}

#### Signature {#revision-signature}

```typescript
readonly revision: RevisionTag;
```
