# @fluid-internal/test-snapshots

The snapshot tests primarily validate compatibility of Fluidframework with older snapshot format, i.e., snapshots that were generated by older versions of Fluidframework runtime work correctly with the current version. Examples of some of the tests:

-   Load older snapshots with current version of container and validate the load is successful.
-   Load older snapshots with current version of container, take new snapshots and validate the snapshots are in the current snapshot format.
-   Messages generated by an older container are replayed to a container running current version. At some intervals during replay, snapshots are taken and validated that they are correct.

A list of old snapshots are stored in [FluidFrameworkTestData](https://github.com/microsoft/FluidFrameworkTestData) repo which is a submodule of Fluidframework repo under the `content` folder. The sub-folders under `snapshotTestContent` represent snapshots generated by a container with content that helps validate compatibility of different functionalities.
For example, `SharedMatrixDeletes` has snapshots that where delete operations were performed on the `SharedMatrix` DDS and it validates the compatibility of this functionality.

For each of these sub-folders, snapshots with older versions are stored under `src_snapshots` and snapshots with current (or latest) version are stored under `current_snapshots`.

Note that the snapshots under `src_snapshots` are stored under folders whose name represent the runtime version that generated these snapshots. Every time the snapshot format changes, the current snapshot are moved to `src_snapshots` under the current runtime version number and the new snapshots are stored in `current_snapshots`.

For example, snapshots under `/SharedMatrixDeletes/src_snapshots/0.58.1000` were generated by runtime version `0.58.1000`. Now, lets say that the snapshot format changes in runtime version `X.0.0`. The snapshots under `/SharedMatrixDeletes/current_snapshots` will move to `/SharedMatrixDeletes/src_snapshots/X.0.0` and the new snapshots will be stored in the `current_snapshots` folder.

## Syncing snapshot tests content

The snapshots are stored in the [FluidFrameworkTestData](https://github.com/microsoft/FluidFrameworkTestData) which is a submodule of Fluidframework repo. Run the following command to download / sync the snapshots:

```
git submodule update --init --recursive
```

This will pull all the content down to enable running the snapshot tests. The content will be under the `content` subdirectory.

You can run the tests by running the following command:

```
npm run test
```

## Submit changes to test content

Changes to the summary format should be extremely rare. In most cases, changes to the test content is not required. If the snapshot tests are failing, the most likely explanation is that a code change is unintentionally changing the summary format. However, it may be needed in rare scenarios and to submit changes to the snapshot test content, follow these steps:

-   Submit changes to the test content:

    -   Sync the content for the snapshot tests as mentioned [here](#Syncing-snapshot-tests-content).
    -   Go to the `content` subdirectory, create a new branch and update the snapshot content. DO NOT update the content manually. You should follow one of these:
        -   [Adding new snapshots](#Adding-new-snapshots-to-the-repo) - If you are adding new snapshots.
        -   [Updating existing snapshots](#Updating-existing-snapshots-in-the-repo) - If you updating existing snapshots.
    -   Create a commit and push the new branch.
    -   Create a PR against `main` branch in the [FluidFrameworkTestData](https://github.com/microsoft/FluidFrameworkTestData) repo. Ensure the build passes, get the changes approved and merge the PR.
    -   Checkout `main` branch of FluidFrameworkTestData repo, i.e., in the `content/` folder and run `git pull` to ensure it has your new changes.

    > Note: The snapshots in the FluidFrameworkTestData repo are exactly what is generated by the new / update scripts. They should not be modified manually. The idea is to preserve these snapshots as-is. The tests may normalize these snapshots when comparing / validating them but the original snapshot is not normalized or modified.

-   Update FluidFramework repo to point to the new content:

    Now that the snapshots are updated, the FluidFramework repo needs to be updated to point to the new commit in FluidFrameworkTestData's main branch.

    -   Go to the FluidFramework repo root. As per the previous step, the FluidFrameworkTestData submodule should already be synced and checked out at `main` which has the changes. If not, [sync](#Syncing-snapshot-tests-content) the test snapshots, checkout `main` and ensure it is up to data with upstream.
    -   Running `git status` on FluidFramework repo root should show changes under `packages/test/snapshots/content`. For example:

        ```
        D:\FluidFramework>git status
        On branch updateTestSnapshots
        Your branch is up to date with 'origin/updateTestSnapshots'.

        Changes not staged for commit:
        (use "git add <file>..." to update what will be committed)
        (use "git restore <file>..." to discard changes in working directory)
                modified:   packages/test/snapshots/content (new commits)

        no changes added to commit (use "git add" and/or "git commit -a")

        D:\FluidFramework>
        ```

    -   Commit these changes to a new branch in the [FluidFramework](https://github.com/microsoft/FluidFramework) repo. Since the main branch of the `FluidFrameworkTestData` repo was updated, the submodule commit hash needs to be updated to reflect that.
    -   Create a PR against `main`, get the changes approved and merge the PR. FluidFramework repo will now point to the new test contents.
        > Note: Ensure that the FluidFramework repo is pointing to a commit in the `main` branch (not a private branch) of `FluidFrameworkTestData`.

## Adding new snapshots to the repo

To add new reference snapshots to the repo for a document, follow tests steps:

-   Use the [fetch-tool](../../tools/fetch-tool/README.md) tool to fetch and save the snapshots and ops for the document.
-   Create a folder for the new snapshots under [snapshotTestContent](./content/snapshotTestContent).
-   Add the `message.json` file from the output of the [fetch-tool](../../tools/fetch-tool/README.md) to the new folder.
-   Create a sub-folder called `base_snapshot`. From the output of the [fetch-tool](../../tools/fetch-tool/README.md), add the contents of the oldest snapshot (except `tree-original.json` and `decoded` folder).
    -   The downloaded snapshots are in folders whose names are in format `<number>-<versionId>`. The oldest snapshot is in a folder that starts with the highest `number`.
    -   Following is an example output of [fetch-tool](../../tools/fetch-tool/README.md):
        ```
        C:\snapshots>dir
        07/26/2021  05:28 PM    <DIR>          .
        08/02/2021  01:19 PM    <DIR>          ..
        07/26/2021  05:28 PM    <DIR>          0-bB8gBAAAHAAAA
        07/26/2021  05:28 PM    <DIR>          1-bBwAAAAAHAAAA
        07/26/2021  05:28 PM               680 info.json
        07/26/2021  05:28 PM           641,806 messages.json
                    2 File(s)        642,486 bytes
                    4 Dir(s)  243,849,199,616 bytes free
        ```
        There are two snapshots in folders `0-bB8gBAAAHAAAA` and `1-bBwAAAAAHAAAA`. The oldest snapshot folder is `1-bBwAAAAAHAAAA` whose contents are:
        ```
        C:\snapshots\1-bBwAAAAAHAAAA>dir
        07/26/2021  05:28 PM    <DIR>          .
        07/26/2021  05:28 PM    <DIR>          ..
        07/26/2021  05:28 PM                40 0-bARBrcuSOLdT_lXwAHWYYa4cJ
        07/26/2021  05:28 PM                74 1-bARAWgNwwMAtEWFX6f8eXjarD
        07/26/2021  05:28 PM               146 3-bARC8xAwm8aYZEMbE2vbPYiTA
        07/26/2021  05:28 PM               104 4-bARDE9u7Ztbm4_xyTBb9dmJKd
        07/26/2021  05:28 PM               242 5-bARBgXKoar1aPt2TC8hgpvFzw
        07/26/2021  05:28 PM               130 6-bARBTxqdFc58itZIePNAhBxVd
        07/26/2021  05:28 PM                83 7-bARCBnzMy4FNE7kexVfsvTEs0
        07/26/2021  05:28 PM               183 8-bARCZTcvC68fmXTMjacLU6Tct
        07/26/2021  05:28 PM               351 9-bARBk1cbwDcU8wOEeGmmuJxxh
        07/26/2021  05:28 PM    <DIR>          decoded
        07/26/2021  05:28 PM             2,231 tree-original.json
        07/26/2021  05:28 PM             2,308 tree.json
                    27 File(s)          9,229 bytes
                    3 Dir(s)  243,653,701,632 bytes free
        ```
        Copy everything in this folder except `tree-original.json` and `decode` to the `base_snapshot` directory created above.
-   Scrub the newly added files of PII manually by replacing your id, your name, your email, and any other PII.
    -   A shortcut you can use is right-click and `Find in Folder...`.
    -   Feel free to use any replaced names, emails, and ids already in the files.
    -   There is a tool in `packages\drivers\debugger\src\sanitize.ts` that can be applied to one file at a time.
-   Run the following from the `packages\test\snapshots` directory:
    ```
    npm run test:new
    ```
    This will generate the snapshots for this based on the current version of the runtime. These new snapshots will be under `current_snapshots` directory.
-   Run the tests to validate that all the tests pass with the new snapshots.
-   Submit the changes by following the steps [here](#Submit-changes-to-test-content).

## Updating existing snapshots in the repo

Whenever the summary format changes in the runtime, the existing snapshots in the repo needs to be updated. This happens when a change adds something new or updates something existing in the summary. For example, adding a new blob to the container runtime's summary tree, updating a property in a blob written to summary, etc.
The snapshots can be updated by following these steps:

-   Run the following from the `packages\test\snapshots` directory:
    ```
    npm run test:update
    ```
    This will save the current snapshots in the `src_snapshots\<current_snapshots_version>` directory. It will then update the current snapshots under the `current_snapshots` directory to the new format.
-   Run the tests to validate that all the tests pass with the new snapshots.
    -   Don't forget to always stay updated with main and reinstall and build if necessary.
-   Submit the changes by following the steps [here](#Submit-changes-to-test-content).

## Debugging / fixing test failures after updating existing snapshots

As mentioned above, changes to the summary format should be extremely rare. Snapshot tests failure likely points to an unintentional change to the summary format.

This section describes the common reasons of test failures even after following the steps above to update the snapshot.

### The change to summary format is not backwards compatible or consistent

The most common cause of test failures is that the change that updates the summary format is not consistent and / or backwards compatible. Changes to summary format should be be done in a backwards compatible and eventual consistent way. Otherwise, old documents may stop working.

### Adding state that may not be the same at a given sequence number

If a change updates the summary by adding / updating state that is not the same at a given sequence number, the tests would fail. They compare summaries generated by different containers after they have processed up to specific sequence numbers. For example:

-   If an array or object is written in the summary, the snapshot comparison might fail if their elements are not in the same order.
-   Container runtime's metadata blob writes `summaryNumber` which is the number of summaries have happened in the container. In the test, containers process up to a sequence number starting from summaries taken at different points in time. So, `summaryNumber` would be different for them.

In such cases, these states have to normalized before the comparison happens in the test. Add handling of such state normalization to the `getNormalizedSnapshot` function in [snapshotNormalizer.ts](../../utils/tool-utils/src/snapshotNormalizer.ts).
