packages/framework/client-logger/app-insights-logger/README.md, before:

# @fluidframework/app-insights-logger

## Overview

This `app-insights-logger` package provides a Fluid telemetry logger that will route Fluid telemetry to Azure App Insights using the `ApplicationInsights.trackEvent` API provided by the [@microsoft/applicationinsights-web](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@microsoft/applicationinsights-web) package. The logger is intended for use by browser based web applications, not NodeJS applications [as stated by the App Insights Web SDK.](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/azure-monitor/app/app-insights-overview?tabs=net)

## What is Application Insights?

At a high level, App Insights is an Azure cloud service for aggregating, visualizing, analyzing, and alerting on metrics related to a given “service” or “application”.
You create an App Insights Instance and then configure your applications to send data to your instance using either Azure provided SDK’s or REST APIs.
This could be general machine related health being automatically reported to the instance when you install a logging program on your service’s machines or custom metrics that you manually configure your applications to send. Keep in mind this logger is intended for use with browser based web applications, not pure nodeJS.
In our case, we are sending custom metrics. [Learn more about Azure App Insights with their docs](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/azure-monitor/app/app-insights-overview?tabs=net)

<!-- AUTO-GENERATED-CONTENT:START (LIBRARY_README_HEADER) -->

<!-- prettier-ignore-start -->
<!-- NOTE: This section is automatically generated using @fluid-tools/markdown-magic. Do not update these generated contents directly. -->

## Using Fluid Framework libraries

When taking a dependency on a Fluid Framework library's public APIs, we recommend using a `^` (caret) version range, such as `^1.3.4`.
While Fluid Framework libraries may use different ranges with interdependencies between other Fluid Framework libraries,
library consumers should always prefer `^`.

If using any of Fluid Framework's unstable APIs (for example, its `beta` APIs), we recommend using a more constrained version range, such as `~`.

## Installation

To get started, install the package by running the following command:

```bash
npm i @fluidframework/app-insights-logger
```

## Importing from this package

This package leverages [package.json exports](https://nodejs.org/api/packages.html#exports) to separate its APIs by support level.
For more information on the related support guarantees, see [API Support Levels](https://fluidframework.com/docs/build/releases-and-apitags/#api-support-levels).

To access the `public` ([SemVer](https://semver.org/)) APIs, import via `@fluidframework/app-insights-logger` like normal.

To access the `beta` APIs, import via `@fluidframework/app-insights-logger/beta`.

## API Documentation

API documentation for **@fluidframework/app-insights-logger** is available at <https://fluidframework.com/docs/apis/app-insights-logger>.

<!-- prettier-ignore-end -->

<!-- AUTO-GENERATED-CONTENT:END -->

## Use case

The primary use case of sending telemetry to Azure App Insights allows users to analyze and store telemetry logs without having to manually setup complex infrastructure.
Once in App Insights users can leverage Azure's log exploring tools to analyze logs.

## Usage

In order to use this logger, users will first have to initialize an `ApplicationInsights` client from the `@microsoft/applicationinsights-web` package. In most cases, initializing the `ApplicationInsights` client will be just providing your App Insight instances connection string AND calling `.loadAppInsights()` on your client. [Learn more about the App Insights SDK](https://github.com/microsoft/ApplicationInsights-JS#before-getting-started)

Here is an example usage:

```typescript
const appInsightsClient = new ApplicationInsights({
	config: {
		connectionString:
			"InstrumentationKey=abcdefgh-ijkl-mnop-qrst-uvwxyz6ffd9c;IngestionEndpoint=https://westus2-2.in.applicationinsights.azure.com/;LiveEndpoint=https://westus2.livediagnostics.monitor.azure.com/",
	},
});

// Initializes the App Insights client. Without this, logs will not be sent to Azure.
appInsightsClient.loadAppInsights();

const logger = new createLogger(appInsightsClient);

// Example of sending an event to app insights using the FluidAppInsightsLogger directly
logger.send({ category: "mockEvent", eventName: "mockEventName" });

// More commonly, we would provide the logger to the instance of the Fluid Loader used by your application. This enables Fluid telemetry to be automatically sent to App Insights as your Fluid App is running.
const tinyliciousClient = new TinyliciousClient({
	logger,
});

const createContainerResult = await tinyliciousClient.createContainer(containerSchema);
```

## Viewing Logs in App Insights

From the Azure web portal, navigate to your app insights instance. Now, go to the "Logs" for your instance, this should be an option within the left side panel. Finally, from this page, you can query for telemetry events, which will be stored in the customEvents table. As an example, you can issue this simple query to get recent telemetry events sent to the customEvents table:

-   Get a count of each distinct log event name and category of log event

    ```
    customEvents
    | summarize count() by name, tostring(customDimensions.category)
    ```

-   Get all performance related logs

    ```
    customEvents
    | where customDimensions.name == "performance"
    ```

<!-- AUTO-GENERATED-CONTENT:START (README_FOOTER) -->

<!-- prettier-ignore-start -->
<!-- NOTE: This section is automatically generated using @fluid-tools/markdown-magic. Do not update these generated contents directly. -->

## Minimum Client Requirements

These are the platform requirements for the current version of Fluid Framework Client Packages.
These requirements err on the side of being too strict since within a major version they can be relaxed over time, but not made stricter.
For Long Term Support (LTS) versions this can require supporting these platforms for several years.

It is likely that other configurations will work, but they are not supported: if they stop working, we do not consider that a bug.
If you would benefit from support for something not listed here, file an issue and the product team will evaluate your request.
When making such a request please include if the configuration already works (and thus the request is just that it becomes officially supported), or if changes are required to get it working.

### Supported Runtimes

-   NodeJs ^20.10.0 except that we will drop support for it [when NodeJs 20 loses its upstream support on 2026-04-30](https://github.com/nodejs/release#release-schedule), and will support a newer LTS version of NodeJS (22) at least 1 year before 20 is end-of-life. This same policy applies to NodeJS 22 when it is end of life (2027-04-30).
-   Modern browsers supporting the es2022 standard library: in response to asks we can add explicit support for using babel to polyfill to target specific standards or runtimes (meaning we can avoid/remove use of things that don't polyfill robustly, but otherwise target modern standards).

### Supported Tools

-   TypeScript 5.4:
    -   All [`strict`](https://www.typescriptlang.org/tsconfig) options are supported.
    -   [`strictNullChecks`](https://www.typescriptlang.org/tsconfig) is required.
    -   [Configuration options deprecated in 5.0](https://github.com/microsoft/TypeScript/issues/51909) are not supported.
    -   `exactOptionalPropertyTypes` is currently not fully supported.
        If used, narrowing members of Fluid Framework types types using `in`, `Reflect.has`, `Object.hasOwn` or `Object.prototype.hasOwnProperty` should be avoided as they may incorrectly exclude `undefined` from the possible values in some cases.
-   [webpack](https://webpack.js.org/) 5
    -   We are not intending to be prescriptive about what bundler to use.
        Other bundlers which can handle ES Modules should work, but webpack is the only one we actively test.

### Module Resolution

[`Node16`, `NodeNext`, or `Bundler`](https://www.typescriptlang.org/tsconfig#moduleResolution) resolution should be used with TypeScript compilerOptions to follow the [Node.js v12+ ESM Resolution and Loading algorithm](https://nodejs.github.io/nodejs.dev/en/api/v20/esm/#resolution-and-loading-algorithm).
Node10 resolution is not supported as it does not support Fluid Framework's API structuring pattern that is used to distinguish stable APIs from those that are in development.

### Module Formats

-   ES Modules:
    ES Modules are the preferred way to consume our client packages (including in NodeJs) and consuming our client packages from ES Modules is fully supported.
-   CommonJs:
    Consuming our client packages as CommonJs is supported only in NodeJS and only for the cases listed below.
    This is done to accommodate some workflows without good ES Module support.
    If you have a workflow you would like included in this list, file an issue.
    Once this list of workflows motivating CommonJS support is empty, we may drop support for CommonJS one year after notice of the change is posted here.

    -   Testing with Jest (which lacks [stable ESM support](https://jestjs.io/docs/ecmascript-modules) due to [unstable APIs in NodeJs](https://github.com/nodejs/node/issues/37648))

## Contribution Guidelines

There are many ways to [contribute](https://github.com/microsoft/FluidFramework/blob/main/CONTRIBUTING.md) to Fluid.

-   Participate in Q&A in our [GitHub Discussions](https://github.com/microsoft/FluidFramework/discussions).
-   [Submit bugs](https://github.com/microsoft/FluidFramework/issues) and help us verify fixes as they are checked in.
-   Review the [source code changes](https://github.com/microsoft/FluidFramework/pulls).
-   [Contribute bug fixes](https://github.com/microsoft/FluidFramework/blob/main/CONTRIBUTING.md).

Detailed instructions for working in the repo can be found in the [Wiki](https://github.com/microsoft/FluidFramework/wiki).

This project has adopted the [Microsoft Open Source Code of Conduct](https://opensource.microsoft.com/codeofconduct/).
For more information see the [Code of Conduct FAQ](https://opensource.microsoft.com/codeofconduct/faq/) or contact [opencode@microsoft.com](mailto:opencode@microsoft.com) with any additional questions or comments.

This project may contain Microsoft trademarks or logos for Microsoft projects, products, or services.
Use of these trademarks or logos must follow Microsoft’s [Trademark & Brand Guidelines](https://www.microsoft.com/trademarks).
Use of Microsoft trademarks or logos in modified versions of this project must not cause confusion or imply Microsoft sponsorship.

## Help

Not finding what you're looking for in this README? Check out [fluidframework.com](https://fluidframework.com/docs/).

Still not finding what you're looking for? Please [file an issue](https://github.com/microsoft/FluidFramework/wiki/Submitting-Bugs-and-Feature-Requests).

Thank you!

## Trademark

This project may contain Microsoft trademarks or logos for Microsoft projects, products, or services.

Use of these trademarks or logos must follow Microsoft's [Trademark & Brand Guidelines](https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/legal/intellectualproperty/trademarks/usage/general).

Use of Microsoft trademarks or logos in modified versions of this project must not cause confusion or imply Microsoft sponsorship.

<!-- prettier-ignore-end -->

<!-- AUTO-GENERATED-CONTENT:END -->

Commit message:

refactor(odsp-driver): Remove node-fetch usage (#23796)
[AB#29142](https://dev.azure.com/fluidframework/235294da-091d-4c29-84fc-cdfc3d90890b/_workitems/edit/29142)

## Description

This PR removes the node-fetch dependency in favour of the native fetch
function.

packages/framework/client-logger/app-insights-logger/README.md, after:

# @fluidframework/app-insights-logger

## Overview

This `app-insights-logger` package provides a Fluid telemetry logger that will route Fluid telemetry to Azure App Insights using the `ApplicationInsights.trackEvent` API provided by the [@microsoft/applicationinsights-web](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@microsoft/applicationinsights-web) package. The logger is intended for use by browser based web applications, not NodeJS applications [as stated by the App Insights Web SDK.](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/azure-monitor/app/app-insights-overview?tabs=net)

## What is Application Insights?

At a high level, App Insights is an Azure cloud service for aggregating, visualizing, analyzing, and alerting on metrics related to a given “service” or “application”.
You create an App Insights Instance and then configure your applications to send data to your instance using either Azure provided SDK’s or REST APIs.
This could be general machine related health being automatically reported to the instance when you install a logging program on your service’s machines or custom metrics that you manually configure your applications to send. Keep in mind this logger is intended for use with browser based web applications, not pure nodeJS.
In our case, we are sending custom metrics. [Learn more about Azure App Insights with their docs](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/azure-monitor/app/app-insights-overview?tabs=net)

<!-- AUTO-GENERATED-CONTENT:START (LIBRARY_README_HEADER) -->

<!-- prettier-ignore-start -->
<!-- NOTE: This section is automatically generated using @fluid-tools/markdown-magic. Do not update these generated contents directly. -->

## Using Fluid Framework libraries

When taking a dependency on a Fluid Framework library's public APIs, we recommend using a `^` (caret) version range, such as `^1.3.4`.
While Fluid Framework libraries may use different ranges with interdependencies between other Fluid Framework libraries,
library consumers should always prefer `^`.

If using any of Fluid Framework's unstable APIs (for example, its `beta` APIs), we recommend using a more constrained version range, such as `~`.

## Installation

To get started, install the package by running the following command:

```bash
npm i @fluidframework/app-insights-logger
```

## Importing from this package

This package leverages [package.json exports](https://nodejs.org/api/packages.html#exports) to separate its APIs by support level.
For more information on the related support guarantees, see [API Support Levels](https://fluidframework.com/docs/build/releases-and-apitags/#api-support-levels).

To access the `public` ([SemVer](https://semver.org/)) APIs, import via `@fluidframework/app-insights-logger` like normal.

To access the `beta` APIs, import via `@fluidframework/app-insights-logger/beta`.

## API Documentation

API documentation for **@fluidframework/app-insights-logger** is available at <https://fluidframework.com/docs/apis/app-insights-logger>.

<!-- prettier-ignore-end -->

<!-- AUTO-GENERATED-CONTENT:END -->

## Use case

The primary use case of sending telemetry to Azure App Insights allows users to analyze and store telemetry logs without having to manually setup complex infrastructure.
Once in App Insights users can leverage Azure's log exploring tools to analyze logs.

## Usage

In order to use this logger, users will first have to initialize an `ApplicationInsights` client from the `@microsoft/applicationinsights-web` package. In most cases, initializing the `ApplicationInsights` client will be just providing your App Insight instances connection string AND calling `.loadAppInsights()` on your client. [Learn more about the App Insights SDK](https://github.com/microsoft/ApplicationInsights-JS#before-getting-started)

Here is an example usage:

```typescript
const appInsightsClient = new ApplicationInsights({
	config: {
		connectionString:
			"InstrumentationKey=abcdefgh-ijkl-mnop-qrst-uvwxyz6ffd9c;IngestionEndpoint=https://westus2-2.in.applicationinsights.azure.com/;LiveEndpoint=https://westus2.livediagnostics.monitor.azure.com/",
	},
});

// Initializes the App Insights client. Without this, logs will not be sent to Azure.
appInsightsClient.loadAppInsights();

const logger = new createLogger(appInsightsClient);

// Example of sending an event to app insights using the FluidAppInsightsLogger directly
logger.send({ category: "mockEvent", eventName: "mockEventName" });

// More commonly, we would provide the logger to the instance of the Fluid Loader used by your application. This enables Fluid telemetry to be automatically sent to App Insights as your Fluid App is running.
const tinyliciousClient = new TinyliciousClient({
	logger,
});

const createContainerResult = await tinyliciousClient.createContainer(containerSchema);
```

## Viewing Logs in App Insights

From the Azure web portal, navigate to your app insights instance. Now, go to the "Logs" for your instance, this should be an option within the left side panel. Finally, from this page, you can query for telemetry events, which will be stored in the customEvents table. As an example, you can issue this simple query to get recent telemetry events sent to the customEvents table:

-   Get a count of each distinct log event name and category of log event

    ```
    customEvents
    | summarize count() by name, tostring(customDimensions.category)
    ```

-   Get all performance related logs

    ```
    customEvents
    | where customDimensions.name == "performance"
    ```

<!-- AUTO-GENERATED-CONTENT:START (README_FOOTER) -->

<!-- prettier-ignore-start -->
<!-- NOTE: This section is automatically generated using @fluid-tools/markdown-magic. Do not update these generated contents directly. -->

## Minimum Client Requirements

These are the platform requirements for the current version of Fluid Framework Client Packages.
These requirements err on the side of being too strict since within a major version they can be relaxed over time, but not made stricter.
For Long Term Support (LTS) versions this can require supporting these platforms for several years.

It is likely that other configurations will work, but they are not supported: if they stop working, we do not consider that a bug.
If you would benefit from support for something not listed here, file an issue and the product team will evaluate your request.
When making such a request please include if the configuration already works (and thus the request is just that it becomes officially supported), or if changes are required to get it working.

### Supported Runtimes

-   NodeJs ^20.10.0 except that we will drop support for it [when NodeJs 20 loses its upstream support on 2026-04-30](https://github.com/nodejs/release#release-schedule), and will support a newer LTS version of NodeJS (22) at least 1 year before 20 is end-of-life. This same policy applies to NodeJS 22 when it is end of life (2027-04-30).
    -   Running Fluid in a Node.js environment with the `--no-experimental-fetch` flag is not supported.
-   Modern browsers supporting the es2022 standard library: in response to asks we can add explicit support for using babel to polyfill to target specific standards or runtimes (meaning we can avoid/remove use of things that don't polyfill robustly, but otherwise target modern standards).

### Supported Tools

-   TypeScript 5.4:
    -   All [`strict`](https://www.typescriptlang.org/tsconfig) options are supported.
    -   [`strictNullChecks`](https://www.typescriptlang.org/tsconfig) is required.
    -   [Configuration options deprecated in 5.0](https://github.com/microsoft/TypeScript/issues/51909) are not supported.
    -   `exactOptionalPropertyTypes` is currently not fully supported.
        If used, narrowing members of Fluid Framework types types using `in`, `Reflect.has`, `Object.hasOwn` or `Object.prototype.hasOwnProperty` should be avoided as they may incorrectly exclude `undefined` from the possible values in some cases.
-   [webpack](https://webpack.js.org/) 5
    -   We are not intending to be prescriptive about what bundler to use.
        Other bundlers which can handle ES Modules should work, but webpack is the only one we actively test.

### Module Resolution

[`Node16`, `NodeNext`, or `Bundler`](https://www.typescriptlang.org/tsconfig#moduleResolution) resolution should be used with TypeScript compilerOptions to follow the [Node.js v12+ ESM Resolution and Loading algorithm](https://nodejs.github.io/nodejs.dev/en/api/v20/esm/#resolution-and-loading-algorithm).
Node10 resolution is not supported as it does not support Fluid Framework's API structuring pattern that is used to distinguish stable APIs from those that are in development.

### Module Formats

-   ES Modules:
    ES Modules are the preferred way to consume our client packages (including in NodeJs) and consuming our client packages from ES Modules is fully supported.
-   CommonJs:
    Consuming our client packages as CommonJs is supported only in NodeJS and only for the cases listed below.
    This is done to accommodate some workflows without good ES Module support.
    If you have a workflow you would like included in this list, file an issue.
    Once this list of workflows motivating CommonJS support is empty, we may drop support for CommonJS one year after notice of the change is posted here.

    -   Testing with Jest (which lacks [stable ESM support](https://jestjs.io/docs/ecmascript-modules) due to [unstable APIs in NodeJs](https://github.com/nodejs/node/issues/37648))

## Contribution Guidelines

There are many ways to [contribute](https://github.com/microsoft/FluidFramework/blob/main/CONTRIBUTING.md) to Fluid.

-   Participate in Q&A in our [GitHub Discussions](https://github.com/microsoft/FluidFramework/discussions).
-   [Submit bugs](https://github.com/microsoft/FluidFramework/issues) and help us verify fixes as they are checked in.
-   Review the [source code changes](https://github.com/microsoft/FluidFramework/pulls).
-   [Contribute bug fixes](https://github.com/microsoft/FluidFramework/blob/main/CONTRIBUTING.md).

Detailed instructions for working in the repo can be found in the [Wiki](https://github.com/microsoft/FluidFramework/wiki).

This project has adopted the [Microsoft Open Source Code of Conduct](https://opensource.microsoft.com/codeofconduct/).
For more information see the [Code of Conduct FAQ](https://opensource.microsoft.com/codeofconduct/faq/) or contact [opencode@microsoft.com](mailto:opencode@microsoft.com) with any additional questions or comments.

This project may contain Microsoft trademarks or logos for Microsoft projects, products, or services.
Use of these trademarks or logos must follow Microsoft’s [Trademark & Brand Guidelines](https://www.microsoft.com/trademarks).
Use of Microsoft trademarks or logos in modified versions of this project must not cause confusion or imply Microsoft sponsorship.

## Help

Not finding what you're looking for in this README? Check out [fluidframework.com](https://fluidframework.com/docs/).

Still not finding what you're looking for? Please [file an issue](https://github.com/microsoft/FluidFramework/wiki/Submitting-Bugs-and-Feature-Requests).

Thank you!

## Trademark

This project may contain Microsoft trademarks or logos for Microsoft projects, products, or services.

Use of these trademarks or logos must follow Microsoft's [Trademark & Brand Guidelines](https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/legal/intellectualproperty/trademarks/usage/general).

Use of Microsoft trademarks or logos in modified versions of this project must not cause confusion or imply Microsoft sponsorship.

<!-- prettier-ignore-end -->

<!-- AUTO-GENERATED-CONTENT:END -->
