---
title: "Fluid Framework 0.48"
date: "2021-09-21"
aliases:
  - /updates/0.48/
summary: |
  The 0.48 release is focused on clarifying the primary Fluid Framework public API, which is
  primarily exposed through the `fluid-framework` library.
---

**Update 0.48.1:** The update addresses this issue: {{< issue 7570 >}} -- `AzureClient` fails when running in local
mode.

**Update 0.48.2:** The update addresses this issue: {{< issue 7596 >}} -- Add sequence number telemetry to deltamanager.

**Update 0.48.3:** The update addresses these issues:

- {{< issue 7647 >}} -- Remove nav param from sharelink set in resolved url.
- {{< issue 7646 >}} -- Add loadMode options in container load end telemetry.

**Update 0.48.4:** The update addresses this issue: {{< issue 7661 >}} -- Restore forward compatibility for container
rehydration.

**Update 0.48.5:** The update addresses this issue: {{< issue 7693 >}} -- Properly log websocket errors.

---

The 0.48 release is focused on clarifying the primary Fluid Framework public API, which is primarily exposed through the
`fluid-framework` library. For more information Fluid's public API see [Packages]({{< relref "packages.md" >}}).

## Breaking changes

### SignalManager and Signaler classes moved

The `SignalManager` and `Signaler` classes have been moved to the `@fluid-experimental/data-objects` package to
better reflect their experimental state. If you use these classes, you can add a dependency on the
`@fluid-experimental/data-objects` package and import the classes from there.

## Other notable changes

- The published {{< apiref "fluid-framework" >}} package now publishes ESNext modules ({{< issue 7474 >}}).
- Various APIs in the {{< apiref "azure-client" >}} and {{< apiref "tinylicious-client" >}} now return {{< apiref
  "IFluidContainer" >}}s instead of {{< apiref "FluidContainer" >}}s. This change should have no effect to developers
  since the runtime object is the same ({{< issue 7457 >}}).
