---
title: Fluid Framework 1.0
aliases:
  - /updates/1.0/
summary: |
  The 1.0 release is the first major release of the Fluid Framework.
---

## Patch Updates

### Update 1.0.1:
- Add the missing [ConnectionState]({{< relref "container-loader.md#connectionstate-enum" >}}) export to `fluid-framework`
- Fix [AzureClient]({{< relref "azureclient-class.md" >}}) issue where the second user could not connect in `local` mode

## Breaking changes

### connected on FluidContainer is replaced with connectionState

The `connected` boolean has been replaced with the `connectionState` property. Read more

```js
import { ConnectionState } from "fluid-framework";

// Previous Syntax
if (container.connected) {
// New Syntax
if (container.connectionState === ConnectionState.Connected) {
  console.log("Container is connected");
}
```

### AzureClient connection configuration has distinct local and remote connection strings

The AzureClient connection config has been updated to have distinct types to differentiate between local and remote connections. There is now an `AzureRemoteConnectionConfig` and `AzureLocalConnectionConfig` type that is strongly typed to the requirements of each connection. You will notice that since the `tenantID` is not needed in the local case, it is no longer required on the config.

```js
// Previous Remote Syntax
const connection = {
  tenantId = "AZURE_TENANT_ID",
  //...
}
// Previous Local Syntax
import { LOCAL_MODE_TENANT_ID } from "@fluidframework/azure-client";
const connection = {
  tenantId = LOCAL_MODE_TENANT_ID,
  //...
}
```

```js
// New Remote Syntax
import { AzureRemoteConnectionConfig } from "@fluidframework/azure-client";
const connection: AzureRemoteConnectionConfig = {
  type= "remote",
  tenantId= "AZURE_TENANT_ID",
  //...
}
// New Local Syntax
import { AzureLocalConnectionConfig } from "@fluidframework/azure-client";
const connection: AzureLocalConnectionConfig = {
  type= "local",
  //...
}
```

### AzureClient connection configuration has distinct unified endpoint

The AzureClient connection config has been changed to have a single endpoint instead of the orderer and storage endpoints. This change is required to enable multiple region support, as well as Disaster Recovery (DR) for Azure Fluid Relay.

If you're using the Public Preview of Azure Fluid Relay, use the following region dependent url as your new single endpoint url:

- West US 2 ->  `https://us.fluidrelay.azure.com`
- West Europe -> `https://eu.fluidrelay.azure.com`
- Southeast Asia -> `https://global.fluidrelay.azure.com`

```js
// Previous Syntax
const connection = {
  orderer= "AZURE_ORDERER_ENDPOINT"
  storage= "AZURE_STORAGE_ENDPOINT"
  //...
}
```

```js
// New Syntax
const connection = {
  endpoint= "AZURE_ENDPOINT"
}
```

## Other notable changes

### AzureClient supports corrupted container data recovery

We've added two new methods to AzureClient that will enable developers to recover data from corrupted containers. The Fluid Framework automatically generates and saves snapshots of the operation stream that we use to load the latest container. `getContainerVersions` will allow developers to access previous versions of the container. `copyContainer` allows developers to generate a new detached container from another container.

[`getContainerVersions(id, options)`]({{< relref "azureclient-class.md#getcontainerversions-method" >}})
[copyContainer(id, containerSchema)]({{< relref "azureclient-class.md#copycontainer-method" >}})

In an situation where a container will fail to load these two methods can be used together to load a document from a previous state in time.

### AzureClient now supports `getContainerVersions`

`getContainerVersions` on the AzureClient allows developers to view the previously generated snapshot versions of the Container.

### AzureClient now supports `copyContainer`

`copyContainer` on the AzureClient allows developers to create a new detached container based on an existing container.
