---
title: Fluid Framework 1.0
aliases:
  - /updates/1.0/
summary: |
  The 1.0 release contains changes related to the Azure Fluid Relay service.
draft: false
---

The 1.0 release of the Fluid Framework contains changes in preparation for the General Availability of the Azure Fluid
Relay service.

Note that this release does contain [breaking changes](#breaking-changes)!

## Breaking changes

### Changed AzureConnectionConfig API

The AzureConnectionConfig has been simplified and aligned with new Azure Fluid Relay capabilities. In particular, this
release enables use of the Azure Fluid Relay service's new multi-region routing capability where Azure Fluid Relay will
host sessions closer to end users to improve the customer experience.

- Previously the API required `orderer` and `storage` URLs. These fields are replaced by a single endpoint URL.
- A `type` field has been added. It is used to differentiate between remote and local connections.
- Defined 2 subtypes of `AzureConnectionConfig`: `AzureLocalConnectionConfig` and `AzureRemoteConnectionConfig` with
  their `type` set to `"local"` and `"remote"` respectively.
- Previously `LOCAL_MODE_TENANT_ID` was supplied for the `tenantId` field when running app locally. Now, when `type ==
  "local"`, no `tenantId` field is needed. `LOCAL_MODE_TENANT_ID` has been removed.

### Container.setAutoReconnect() and Container.resume() are removed

The functions `Container.setAutoReconnect()` and `Container.resume()` were deprecated in 0.58 and are now removed. To
replace their functionality use `Container.connect()` instead of `Container.setAutoReconnect(true)` and
`Container.resume()`, and use `Container.disconnect()` instead of `Container.setAutoReconnect(false)`.

### Remove IContainer.connected and IFluidContainer.connected

The properties `IContainer.connected` and `IFluidContainer.connected` were deprecated in 0.58 and are now removed. To
replace their functionality use `IContainer.connectionState` and `IFluidContainer.connectionState` respectively.

Example:

``` diff
- if (container.connected) {
+ if (container.connectionState === ConnectionState.Connected) {
    console.log("Container is connected");
}
```

## connect() and disconnect() are now required functions for IContainer and IFluidContainer

The functions `IContainer.connect()`, `IContainer.disconnect()`, `IFluidContainer.connect()`, and
`IFluidContainer.disconnect()` have all been changed from optional to mandatory functions.

### Removed const enums from MergeTree, Sequence, and SharedString

The types `RBColor`, `MergeTreeMaintenanceType`, and `MergeTreeDeltaType` are no longer `const enums`. They are now
`const objects` with a union type. There should be no change necessary for consumers unless you are using a specific
value as a type. When using a specific value as a type, it is now necessary to prefix with `typeof`. This scenario is
uncommon in consuming code. Example:

``` diff
export interface IMergeTreeInsertMsg extends IMergeTreeDelta {
-    type: MergeTreeDeltaType.INSERT;
+    type: typeof MergeTreeDeltaType.INSERT;
```

## Other notable changes

*No notable changes.*
