{"kind":"Interface","title":"IFluidCodeDetails Interface","summary":"","members":{"PropertySignature":{"config":"/docs/apis/core-interfaces/ifluidcodedetails#config-PropertySignature","package":"/docs/apis/core-interfaces/ifluidcodedetails#package-PropertySignature"}},"package":"@fluidframework/core-interfaces","unscopedPackageName":"core-interfaces"}

[//]: # (Do not edit this file. It is automatically generated by API Documenter.)

[Packages](/docs/apis/) &gt; [@fluidframework/core-interfaces](/docs/apis/core-interfaces) &gt; [IFluidCodeDetails](/docs/apis/core-interfaces/ifluidcodedetails)

{{% callout warning Deprecated %}}
in favor of *@fluidframework/container-definitions/fluidPackage.ts#IFluidCodeDetails* to have code loading modules in same package. Data structure used to describe the code to load on the Fluid document

{{% /callout %}}

<b>Signature:</b>

```typescript
export interface IFluidCodeDetails 
```

## Properties

<table class="table table-striped table-hover property-list">
<caption>List of properties on this interface</caption>
  <thead>
    <tr>
     <th scope="col">Property</th>
 <th scope="col">Type</th>
 <th scope="col">Description</th>
    </tr>
  </thead>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td><a href='/docs/apis/core-interfaces/ifluidcodedetails#config-PropertySignature'>config</a></td>
      <td><a href='/docs/apis/core-interfaces/ifluidcodedetailsconfig'>IFluidCodeDetailsConfig</a></td>
      <td>Configuration details. This includes links to the package manager and base CDNs.</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td><a href='/docs/apis/core-interfaces/ifluidcodedetails#package-PropertySignature'>package</a></td>
      <td>string | Readonly<<a href='/docs/apis/core-interfaces/ifluidpackage'>IFluidPackage</a>></td>
      <td>The code package to be used on the Fluid document. This is either the package name which will be loaded from a package manager. Or the expanded Fluid package.</td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

<hr><div id=interface-details>

## Property Details {#properties-details}

### config {#config-PropertySignature}

Configuration details. This includes links to the package manager and base CDNs.

<b>Signature:</b>

```typescript
readonly config?: IFluidCodeDetailsConfig;
```

### package {#package-PropertySignature}

The code package to be used on the Fluid document. This is either the package name which will be loaded from a package manager. Or the expanded Fluid package.

<b>Signature:</b>

```typescript
readonly package: string | Readonly<IFluidPackage>;
```

</div>
