<!-- THIS IS AN AUTOGENERATED FILE. DO NOT EDIT THIS FILE DIRECTLY. -->

# Fluid Framework v2.0.0-internal.7.3.0

## Rename SchemaCollection.treeSchema to nodeSchema

This breaks all existing documents, as well as any users of SchemaCollection.treeSchema.

## Deprecate BaseSegment.ack, Client, CollaborationWindow, compareNumbers, compareStrings, createAnnotateMarkerOp, createAnnotateRangeOp, createInsertOp, createInsertSegmentOp, createRemoveRangeOp, IConsensusInfo, IConsensusValue, IMarkerModifiedAction, IMergeTreeTextHelper, ISegment.ack, LocalClientId, MergeTreeDeltaCallback, MergeTreeMaintenanceCallback, NonCollabClient, SegmentAccumulator, SegmentGroup, SegmentGroupCollection.dequeue, SegmentGroupCollection.enqueue, SegmentGroupCollection.pop, SortedSegmentSet, SortedSegmentSetItem, SortedSet, toRemovalInfo, TreeMaintenanceSequenceNumber, UnassignedSequenceNumber, UniversalSequenceNumber

This functionality was not intended for export and will be removed in a future release.

## Remove editable-tree-1

Remove editable-tree-1 and APIs related to it. Users must migrate to editable-tree-2.

## @fluid-internal/stochastic-test-utils renamed to @fluid-private/stochastic-test-utils

The @fluid-internal/stochastic-test-utils has been renamed to @fluid-private/stochastic-test-utils. This package is intended for use within the Fluid Framework repo and is not published externally.

## @fluid-internal/test-pairwise-generator renamed to @fluid-private/test-pairwise-generator

The @fluid-internal/test-pairwise-generator has been renamed to @fluid-private/test-pairwise-generator. This package is intended for use within the Fluid Framework repo and is not published externally.

## @fluid-internal/test-version-utils renamed to @fluid-private/test-version-utils

The @fluid-internal/test-version-utils has been renamed to @fluid-private/test-version-utils. This package is intended for use within the Fluid Framework repo and is not published externally.

## @fluid-internal/test-drivers renamed to @fluid-private/test-drivers

The @fluid-internal/test-drivers has been renamed to @fluid-private/test-drivers. This package is intended for use within the Fluid Framework repo and is not published externally.

## @fluid-internal/test-dds-utils renamed to @fluid-private/test-dds-utils

The @fluid-internal/test-dds-utils has been renamed to @fluid-private/test-dds-utils. This package is intended for use within the Fluid Framework repo and is not published externally.

## @fluid-internal/test-loader-utils renamed to @fluid-private/test-loader-utils

The @fluid-internal/test-loader-utils has been renamed to @fluid-private/test-loader-utils. This package is intended for use within the Fluid Framework repo and is not published externally.
