<!-- THIS IS AN AUTOGENERATED FILE. DO NOT EDIT THIS FILE DIRECTLY. -->

# Fluid Framework v2.0.0-internal.7.1.0

## Move `location-redirection-utils` APIs to `container-loader`

Moves the 2 package exports of `location-redirection-utils` to the `container-loader` package.

Exports from `location-redirection-utils` are now deprecated, and the package itself will be removed in an upcoming release.

## container-runtime: `Summarizer.create(...)` has been deprecated

The public static method `Summarizer.create(...)` has been deprecated and will be removed in a future major release. Creating a summarizer is not a publicly supported API. Please remove all usage of this method.

## merge-tree: Deprecate IntervalType.Nest, internedSpaces, RangeStackMap, refGetRangeLabels, refHasRangeLabel, and refHasRangeLabels

The following classes and functions have been deprecated. The functionality has poor test coverage and is largely unused. They will be removed in a future release.

-   IntervalType.Nest
-   internedSpaces
-   RangeStackMap
-   refGetRangeLabels
-   refHasRangeLabel
-   refHasRangeLabels

## merge-tree: Deprecate Stack, clone, combine, createMap, extend, extendIfUndefined, and matchProperties

The following classes and functions have been deprecated. They were not intended for public export and will be removed in a future release.

-   Stack
-   clone
-   combine
-   createMap
-   extend
-   extendIfUndefined
-   matchProperties

## sequence: IntervalCollection.add's intervalType is now deprecated

The `intervalType` parameter is being removed from `IntervalCollection.add`. The new usage requires calling add with an object containing each of the desired parameters. Example: `add({start: 0, end: 1, props: { a: b }})`

The signature of `IntervalCollection.change` is also being updated to an object containing the desired parameters, instead of the existing list of parameters. In addition, `changeProperties` will be removed, so in order to change the properties of an interval, the `change` method (with the updated signature) will be used. The id of the interval is not included in the object passed to `change`, but is instead passed as the first parameter to `change`.

Examples:

-   Change interval endpoints: `change(intervalId, { start: 3, end: 4 })`
-   Change interval properties: `change(intervalId, { props: { a: c } })`

## tree2: Forest summaries now include detached fields

Forest summaries now include detached fields. This breaks existing documents.

## tree2: Rename "Value" Multiplicity and FieldKind

`Multiplicity.Value` has been renamed to `Multiplicity.Single` and `FieldKinds.value` has been renamed to `FieldKinds.required`.

## tree2: SharedTreeFactory type changed

The 'type' field for @fluid-experimental/tree2's exported `IChannelFactory`s has been changed to not overlap with @fluid-experimental/tree's channel type. This breaks existing tree2 documents: upon loading them, an error with message "Channel Factory SharedTree not registered" will be thrown. If using the typed-tree API, the message will instead be "Channel Factory SharedTree:<subtype\> not registered" where <subtype\> is the subtype used by the application when constructing their `TypedTreeFactory`.

Applications which want to support such documents could add an explicit registry entry to their `ISharedObjectRegistry` which maps the type shown in the error message to a factory producing @fluid-experimental/tree2.

## tree2: Allow ImplicitFieldSchema for non-recursive schema building

SchemaBuilder now accepts `ImplicitFieldSchema` in many places which used to require `FieldSchema`. This allows `Required` fields to be implicitly specified from just their AllowedTypes. Additionally in these cases the AllowedTypes can be implicitly specified from a single `Any` or `TreeSchema`.
