<!-- THIS IS AN AUTOGENERATED FILE. DO NOT EDIT THIS FILE DIRECTLY. -->

# Fluid Framework v2.1.0

## Other Changes

### Promote Tinylicious Client APIs from `@beta` to `@public`

The Tinylicious Client is used in public examples and documentation, and therefore requires public level support.

### The expected type of the argument to the fromJSONObject function has changed.

Previously, the arguments of Marker.fromJSONObject and TextSegment.fromJSONObject were of type `any`. Now, the argument for the Marker implementation is of type `IJSONSegment` and the argument for the TextSegment implementation is of type `string | IJSONSegment`.

### Detect arrayNode iterator invalidation

This change updates the behavior of array nodes such that when we concurrently edit the array during iteration, it will throw an error.

### Added typeguard for SharedObjectKinds

In the 2.0 release of Fluid, the concrete class implementations for DDSes were hidden from Fluid's API surface. This made `instanceof` checks fail to work correctly. There were ways to work around this in application code, but they involved boilerplate which required more understanding of Fluid internals than should be necessary. This change adds a drop-in replacement to `instanceof`: the `.is()` method to `SharedObjectKind`. For example:

```typescript
// Works in FluidFramework 1.0 but not in the initial release of FluidFramework 2.0:
if (myObject instanceof SharedString) {
  // do something
}

// With this change, that code can now be written like so:
if (SharedString.is(myObject)) {
  // do something
}
```

### Using "delete" on tree fields now errors instead of not working correctly.

TypeScript allows "delete" on object node optional fields if "exactOptionalPropertyTypes" is not enabled. This does not work correctly at runtime and now produces an informative error.

### Improved error reporting

Several cases of invalid usage patterns for tree APIs have gained improved error reporting, as well as improved documentation on the APIs detailing what usage is supported. These improvements include:

- Unsupported usages of schema classes: using more than one schema class derived from a single SchemaFactory generated base class. This used to hit internal asserts, but now has a descriptive user-facing UsageError. Most of this work was done in [9fb3dcf](https://github.com/microsoft/FluidFramework/commit/9fb3dcf491a7f0d66f4abbdc64ab97ccabef4707).

- Improved detection of when prior exception may have left SharedTree in an invalid state. These cases now report a UsageError including a reference to the prior exception. This was mainly done in [9fb3dcf](https://github.com/microsoft/FluidFramework/commit/9fb3dcf491a7f0d66f4abbdc64ab97ccabef4707) and [b77d530](https://github.com/microsoft/FluidFramework/commit/b77d530b9252201c40a90d1a2a6315f76f1a4a4b).

### includeInReleaseNotes: no

---

tree: Improved performance for accessing identifiers in shortId API

Users should see improved performance when calling the `Tree.shortId` API. Identifier field keys are now cached in the schema for faster access.

## 🐛 Bug Fixes

### Updated `joi` dependency to latest major version

The `joi` dependency was updated from 14.3.1 to 17.3.1 to address a critical vulnerability exploit [CVE-2020-36604](https://github.com/advisories/GHSA-c429-5p7v-vgjp). This required updating the use of `joi` schema validation function within `property-query` to the new major version syntax.
