{
  "title": "ShareLinkFetcherProps Interface",
  "summary": "Properties passed to the code responsible for fetching share link for a file.",
  "kind": "Interface",
  "members": {
    "PropertySignature": {
      "identityType": "/docs/apis/odsp-driver/sharelinkfetcherprops-interface#identitytype-propertysignature",
      "tokenFetcher": "/docs/apis/odsp-driver/sharelinkfetcherprops-interface#tokenfetcher-propertysignature"
    }
  },
  "package": "@fluidframework/odsp-driver",
  "unscopedPackageName": "odsp-driver"
}

[//]: # (Do not edit this file. It is automatically generated by @fluidtools/api-markdown-documenter.)

Properties passed to the code responsible for fetching share link for a file.

WARNING: This API is provided as an alpha preview and may change without notice. Use at your own risk.

## Signature {#sharelinkfetcherprops-signature}

```typescript
export interface ShareLinkFetcherProps
```

## Properties

<table class="table table-striped table-hover">
  <thead>
    <tr>
      <th>
        Property
      </th>
      <th>
        Alerts
      </th>
      <th>
        Type
      </th>
      <th>
        Description
      </th>
    </tr>
  </thead>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td>
        <a href='/docs/apis/odsp-driver/sharelinkfetcherprops-interface#identitytype-propertysignature'>identityType</a>
      </td>
      <td>
        <code>ALPHA</code>
      </td>
      <td>
        <span><a href='/docs/apis/odsp-driver-definitions#identitytype-typealias'>IdentityType</a></span>
      </td>
      <td>
        Identity type determining the shape of share link as it differs for Enterprise and Consumer users.
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>
        <a href='/docs/apis/odsp-driver/sharelinkfetcherprops-interface#tokenfetcher-propertysignature'>tokenFetcher</a>
      </td>
      <td>
        <code>ALPHA</code>
      </td>
      <td>
        <span><a href='/docs/apis/odsp-driver-definitions#tokenfetcher-typealias'>TokenFetcher</a>&lt;<a href='/docs/apis/odsp-driver-definitions/odspresourcetokenfetchoptions-interface'>OdspResourceTokenFetchOptions</a>&gt;</span>
      </td>
      <td>
        Callback method that is used to fetch access token necessary to call API that produces share link
      </td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

## Property Details

### identityType (ALPHA) {#identitytype-propertysignature}

Identity type determining the shape of share link as it differs for Enterprise and Consumer users.

WARNING: This API is provided as an alpha preview and may change without notice. Use at your own risk.

#### Signature {#identitytype-signature}

```typescript
identityType: IdentityType;
```

### tokenFetcher (ALPHA) {#tokenfetcher-propertysignature}

Callback method that is used to fetch access token necessary to call API that produces share link

WARNING: This API is provided as an alpha preview and may change without notice. Use at your own risk.

#### Signature {#tokenfetcher-signature}

```typescript
tokenFetcher: TokenFetcher<OdspResourceTokenFetchOptions>;
```
