{
  "title": "ISerializableValue Interface",
  "summary": "The \\_ready-for-serialization\\_ format of values contained in DDS contents. This allows us to use [type](/docs/apis/attributable-map/iserializablevalue-interface#type-propertysignature) to understand whether they're storing a Plain JavaScript object, a [SharedObject](/docs/apis/shared-object-base/sharedobject-class), or a value type.",
  "kind": "Interface",
  "members": {
    "PropertySignature": {
      "attribution": "/docs/apis/attributable-map/iserializablevalue-interface#attribution-propertysignature",
      "type": "/docs/apis/attributable-map/iserializablevalue-interface#type-propertysignature",
      "value": "/docs/apis/attributable-map/iserializablevalue-interface#value-propertysignature"
    }
  },
  "package": "@fluid-experimental/attributable-map",
  "unscopedPackageName": "attributable-map"
}

[//]: # (Do not edit this file. It is automatically generated by @fluidtools/api-markdown-documenter.)

[Packages](/docs/apis/) &gt; [@fluid-experimental/attributable-map](/docs/apis/attributable-map) &gt; [ISerializableValue](/docs/apis/attributable-map/iserializablevalue-interface)

{{% callout warning Deprecated %}}
This type is legacy and deprecated.

{{% /callout %}}

The \_ready-for-serialization\_ format of values contained in DDS contents. This allows us to use [type](/docs/apis/attributable-map/iserializablevalue-interface#type-propertysignature) to understand whether they're storing a Plain JavaScript object, a [SharedObject](/docs/apis/shared-object-base/sharedobject-class), or a value type.

## Signature {#iserializablevalue-signature}

```typescript
export interface ISerializableValue
```

## Remarks {#iserializablevalue-remarks}

Note that the in-memory equivalent of ISerializableValue is ILocalValue (similarly holding a type, but with the \_in-memory representation\_ of the value instead). An ISerializableValue is what gets passed to JSON.stringify and comes out of JSON.parse. This format is used both for snapshots (loadCore/populate) and ops (set).

If type is Plain, it must be a plain JS object that can survive a JSON.stringify/parse. E.g. a URL object will just get stringified to a URL string and not rehydrate as a URL object on the other side. It may contain members that are ISerializedHandle (the serialized form of a handle).

If type is a value type then it must be amongst the types registered via registerValueType or we won't know how to serialize/deserialize it (we rely on its factory via .load() and .store()). Its value will be type-dependent. If type is Shared, then the in-memory value will just be a reference to the SharedObject. Its value will be a channel ID.

## Properties

<table class="table table-striped table-hover">
  <thead>
    <tr>
      <th>
        Property
      </th>
      <th>
        Modifiers
      </th>
      <th>
        Type
      </th>
      <th>
        Description
      </th>
    </tr>
  </thead>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td>
        <a href='/docs/apis/attributable-map/iserializablevalue-interface#attribution-propertysignature'>attribution</a>
      </td>
      <td>
        <code>optional</code>
      </td>
      <td>
        <span>AttributionKey &#124; number</span>
      </td>
      <td>
        The attribution key attached with the entry
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>
        <a href='/docs/apis/attributable-map/iserializablevalue-interface#type-propertysignature'>type</a>
      </td>
      <td>
      </td>
      <td>
        <span>string</span>
      </td>
      <td>
        A type annotation to help indicate how the value serializes.
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>
        <a href='/docs/apis/attributable-map/iserializablevalue-interface#value-propertysignature'>value</a>
      </td>
      <td>
      </td>
      <td>
        <span>any</span>
      </td>
      <td>
        The JSONable representation of the value.
      </td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

## Property Details

### attribution {#attribution-propertysignature}

The attribution key attached with the entry

#### Signature {#attribution-signature}

```typescript
attribution?: AttributionKey | number;
```

### type {#type-propertysignature}

A type annotation to help indicate how the value serializes.

#### Signature {#type-signature}

```typescript
type: string;
```

### value {#value-propertysignature}

The JSONable representation of the value.

#### Signature {#value-signature}

```typescript
value: any;
```
