{
  "title": "DriverPreCheckInfo Interface",
  "summary": "Information that can be returned by a lightweight, seperately exported driver function. Used to preanalyze a URL for driver compatibility and preload information.",
  "kind": "Interface",
  "members": {
    "PropertySignature": {
      "codeDetailsHint": "/docs/apis/driver-definitions/driverprecheckinfo-interface#codedetailshint-propertysignature",
      "criticalBootDomains": "/docs/apis/driver-definitions/driverprecheckinfo-interface#criticalbootdomains-propertysignature"
    }
  },
  "package": "@fluidframework/driver-definitions",
  "unscopedPackageName": "driver-definitions"
}

[//]: # (Do not edit this file. It is automatically generated by @fluidtools/api-markdown-documenter.)

Information that can be returned by a lightweight, seperately exported driver function. Used to preanalyze a URL for driver compatibility and preload information.

WARNING: This API is provided as an alpha preview and may change without notice. Use at your own risk.

## Signature {#driverprecheckinfo-signature}

```typescript
export interface DriverPreCheckInfo
```

## Properties

<table class="table table-striped table-hover">
  <thead>
    <tr>
      <th>
        Property
      </th>
      <th>
        Alerts
      </th>
      <th>
        Modifiers
      </th>
      <th>
        Type
      </th>
      <th>
        Description
      </th>
    </tr>
  </thead>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td>
        <a href='/docs/apis/driver-definitions/driverprecheckinfo-interface#codedetailshint-propertysignature'>codeDetailsHint</a>
      </td>
      <td>
        <code>ALPHA</code>
      </td>
      <td>
        <code>optional</code>
      </td>
      <td>
        <span>string</span>
      </td>
      <td>
        A code details hint that can potentially be used to prefetch container code prior to having a snapshot.
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>
        <a href='/docs/apis/driver-definitions/driverprecheckinfo-interface#criticalbootdomains-propertysignature'>criticalBootDomains</a>
      </td>
      <td>
        <code>ALPHA</code>
      </td>
      <td>
        <code>optional</code>
      </td>
      <td>
        <span>string[]</span>
      </td>
      <td>
        Domains that will be connected to on the critical boot path. Hosts can choose to preconnect to these for improved performance.
      </td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

## Property Details

### codeDetailsHint (ALPHA) {#codedetailshint-propertysignature}

A code details hint that can potentially be used to prefetch container code prior to having a snapshot.

WARNING: This API is provided as an alpha preview and may change without notice. Use at your own risk.

#### Signature {#codedetailshint-signature}

```typescript
codeDetailsHint?: string;
```

### criticalBootDomains (ALPHA) {#criticalbootdomains-propertysignature}

Domains that will be connected to on the critical boot path. Hosts can choose to preconnect to these for improved performance.

WARNING: This API is provided as an alpha preview and may change without notice. Use at your own risk.

#### Signature {#criticalbootdomains-signature}

```typescript
criticalBootDomains?: string[];
```
