{
  "title": "IDocumentStorageServicePolicies Interface",
  "summary": "Policies describing attributes or characteristics of the driver's storage service, to direct how other components interact with the driver",
  "kind": "Interface",
  "members": {
    "PropertySignature": {
      "caching": "/docs/apis/driver-definitions/idocumentstorageservicepolicies-interface#caching-propertysignature",
      "maximumCacheDurationMs": "/docs/apis/driver-definitions/idocumentstorageservicepolicies-interface#maximumcachedurationms-propertysignature"
    }
  },
  "package": "@fluidframework/driver-definitions",
  "unscopedPackageName": "driver-definitions"
}

[//]: # (Do not edit this file. It is automatically generated by @fluidtools/api-markdown-documenter.)

Policies describing attributes or characteristics of the driver's storage service, to direct how other components interact with the driver

WARNING: This API is provided as an alpha preview and may change without notice. Use at your own risk.

## Signature {#idocumentstorageservicepolicies-signature}

```typescript
export interface IDocumentStorageServicePolicies
```

## Properties

<table class="table table-striped table-hover">
  <thead>
    <tr>
      <th>
        Property
      </th>
      <th>
        Alerts
      </th>
      <th>
        Modifiers
      </th>
      <th>
        Type
      </th>
      <th>
        Description
      </th>
    </tr>
  </thead>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td>
        <a href='/docs/apis/driver-definitions/idocumentstorageservicepolicies-interface#caching-propertysignature'>caching</a>
      </td>
      <td>
        <code>ALPHA</code>
      </td>
      <td>
        <code>optional</code>, <code>readonly</code>
      </td>
      <td>
        <span><a href='/docs/apis/driver-definitions/loadercachingpolicy-enum'>LoaderCachingPolicy</a></span>
      </td>
      <td>
        Should the Loader implement any sort of pre-fetching or caching mechanism?
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>
        <a href='/docs/apis/driver-definitions/idocumentstorageservicepolicies-interface#maximumcachedurationms-propertysignature'>maximumCacheDurationMs</a>
      </td>
      <td>
        <code>ALPHA</code>
      </td>
      <td>
        <code>optional</code>, <code>readonly</code>
      </td>
      <td>
        <span><a href='/docs/apis/driver-definitions#fivedaysms-typealias'>FiveDaysMs</a></span>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>
          IMPORTANT: This policy MUST be set to 5 days and PROPERLY ENFORCED for drivers that are used in applications where Garbage Collection is enabled. Otherwise data loss may occur.
        </p>
        <p>
          This policy pertains to requests for the latest snapshot from the service. If set, it means that the driver guarantees not to use a cached value that was fetched more than 5 days ago. If undefined, the driver makes no guarantees about the age of snapshots used for loading.
        </p>
      </td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

## Property Details

### caching (ALPHA) {#caching-propertysignature}

Should the Loader implement any sort of pre-fetching or caching mechanism?

WARNING: This API is provided as an alpha preview and may change without notice. Use at your own risk.

#### Signature {#caching-signature}

```typescript
readonly caching?: LoaderCachingPolicy;
```

### maximumCacheDurationMs (ALPHA) {#maximumcachedurationms-propertysignature}

IMPORTANT: This policy MUST be set to 5 days and PROPERLY ENFORCED for drivers that are used in applications where Garbage Collection is enabled. Otherwise data loss may occur.

This policy pertains to requests for the latest snapshot from the service. If set, it means that the driver guarantees not to use a cached value that was fetched more than 5 days ago. If undefined, the driver makes no guarantees about the age of snapshots used for loading.

WARNING: This API is provided as an alpha preview and may change without notice. Use at your own risk.

#### Signature {#maximumcachedurationms-signature}

```typescript
readonly maximumCacheDurationMs?: FiveDaysMs;
```
